"Backprop" is the same as "backpropagation": it's just a shorter way to say it. It is sometimes abbreviated as "BP".
Noise in the data, to a reasonable amount, may help the network to generalize better. Sometimes, it has the opposite effect. It partly depends on the kind of noise ("true" vs. artificial). The gives a good overview. Excerpt: In some field, such as computer vision, it's common to increase the size of the training set by copying some samples and adding some noises or other transformation.
There is no direct way to find the optimal number of them: people empirically try and see (e.g., using cross-validation). The most common search techniques are random, manual, and grid searches. There exist more advanced techniques such as Gaussian processes, e.g., IEEE SLT 2016.
Because he did not yet know how far away current AI is. Working in an media AI lab, I get this question a lot. But really. we are still a long way from this. The robots still do everything we detailledly describe them to do. Instead of seeing the robot as intelligent, I would look to the human programmer for where the creativity really happens.
It rather depends on how one defines several of the terms used. For example: The motivation for this description of "agent" arose from a desire to have a quantitative model - it's not clear that such a model is a good fit for human cognition. However, there are alternative definitions of agents, for example the, which are rather more open-ended and hence more obviously applicable to humans.
As Andrew Ng, worrying about such threat from AI is like worrying about of overpopulation on Mars. It is science fiction. That being said, given the rise of (much weaker) robots and other (semi-)autonomous agents, the fields of the law and ethics are increasingly incorporating them, e.g. see.
It's analogous to analogue versus digital, or the many shades of gray in between black and white: when evaluating the truthiness of a result, in binary boolean it's either true or false , but when utilizing fuzzy logic, it's an estimated probability between 0 and 1 (such as 0.75 being mostly probably true). It's useful for making calculated decisions when all information needed isn't necessarily available..
Dropout means that every individual data point is only used to fit a random subset of the neurons. This is done to make the neural network more like an ensemble model. That is, just as a random forest is averaging together the results of many individual decision trees, you can see a neural network trained using dropout as averaging together the results of many individual neural networks (with 'results' understood to mean activations at every layer, rather than just the output layer).
Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence. Roughly speaking, it corresponds to its learning side. There is no "official" definitions, boundaries are a bit fuzzy.
The "singularity," viewed narrowly, refers to a point at which economic growth is so fast that we can't make useful predictions about what the future past that point will look like. It's often used interchangeably with "intelligence explosion," which is when we get so-called Strong AI, which is AI that is intelligent enough to understand and improve itself. It seems reasonable to expect that the intelligence explosion would immediately lead to an economic singularity, but the reverse is not necessarily true.
There are at least two questions in your question: and The first question is deep and technical, the second broad and philosophical. The methods have been described in:. The problem of Go or perfect information games in general is that: So the methods will concentrate on shrinking the search space in an efficient way. Methods and structures described in the paper include: The second question has no definite answer, as you will have at least two angles on AI: and. So, yes, it is artificial intelligence, but it is non-sentient.
One person working in this space is Dr. Woody Barfield. He just wrote a book titled that focuses largely on the legal/policy issues around AI (and related topics). In addition to the book, he is continuing with other research in this area.
Yes, as Franck has rightly put, "backprop" means backpropogation, which is frequently used in the domain of neural networks for error optimization. For a detailed explanation, I would point out on the concept of backpropogation by a very good book of Michael Nielsen.
If a computer is just brute-forcing the solution, it's not learning anything or using any kind of intelligence at all, and therefore it shouldn't be called "artificial intelligence." It has to make decisions based on what's happened before in similar instances. For something to be intelligent, it needs a way to keep track of what it's learned. A chess program might have a really awesome measurement algorithm to use on every possible board state, but if it's always trying each state and never storing what it learns about different approaches, it's not intelligent.
The difference is mostly in the number of layers. For a long time, it was believed that "1-2 hidden layers are enough for most tasks" and it was impractical to use more than that, because training neural networks can be very computationally demanding. Nowadays, computers are capable of much more, so people have started to use networks with more layers and found that they work very well for some tasks. The word "deep" is there simply to distinguish these networks from the traditional, "more shallow" ones.
A deep neural network is just a (feed-forward) neural network with many layers. However, deep belief networks, Deep Boltzmann networks, etc., are not considered (debatable) deep neural networks, as their topology is different (i.e. they have undirected networks in their topology). See also this:.
I believe it would be more accurate to say that (some) search engines use AI. Broadly saying "search engines are AI" is not really correct. At the core, most search engines are nothing more than an inverted text index using something like tf–idf scoring. That's a very mechanical/simple thing that nobody would really call AI. But more sophisticated search engines may use AI or AI techniques to do things like semantic analysis - so they can actually "answer questions" instead of just looking up words in an index.
A deep neural network (DNN) is nothing but a neural network which has multiple layers, where multiple can be subjective. IMHO, any network which has 6 or 7 or more layers is considered deep. So, the above would form a very basic definition of a deep network.
If one thinks of intelligence as a continuous measure of optimization power (that is, how much better are outcomes for any unit of cognitive effort expended), then exhaustive search has non-zero intelligence (in that it does actually give better outcomes as more effort is expended) but very, very low intelligence (as the outcomes are better mostly by luck, and the amount of effort expended can be impossibly large).
The term classical AI refers to the concept of intelligence that was broadly accepted after the and basically refers to a kind of intelligence that is strongly symbolic and oriented to logic and language processing. One basic point is the duality body vs. mind. It's in this period that the mind starts to be compared with computer software. Two classical historical examples of this conception of intelligence Two technical examples of classical AI Note that in all cases the hardware (once compared with the body) does not play any role: Intelligence is abstract and independent from the material world.
There are many online services that use statistical neural networks for recommendations. For example, we have here in Russia that could give it's users recommendations for movies and shows to watch and books to read. Its recommendation core is based on many things known about a user: what movies/books he or she loves and what not, analyses his or her friends like and so on. While you have only a few items rayed it will give you very strange recommendations but then it becomes more accurate and really could give you some true gems.
I don't think it makes sense to decide activation functions based on desired properties of the output; you can easily insert a calibration step that maps the 'neural network score' to whatever units you actually want to use (dollars, probability, etc.). So I think preference between different activation functions mostly boils down to the of those activation functions (like whether or not they're continuously differentiable). Because there's just a linear transformation between the two, I think that means there isn't a meaningful difference between them.
Depends on who you ask! John Searle, who proposed this argument, would say "yes", but others would say it is irrelevant. The Turing Test does not stipulate that a machine must actually "understand" what it is doing, as long as it seems that way to a human. You could argue that our "thinking" is only a more sophisticated form of clever algorithmics.
Thus, genetic algorithms are a kind of artificial intelligence. Regarding scale, I don't see it as an important factor for defining G.A. as A.I or not. The same way we can simply classify different living forms as more or less intelligent instead of just saying intelligent or not intelligent. Finally, let's just make an important distinction: our brains are the product of natural selection, but the brains themselves don't use the same principle in order to achieve intelligence.
I believe this argument is based on the fact that intelligence is a single dimension when it really isn't. Are machines and humans really on the same level if a machine can solve a complex problem in a millionth of the time a human can? It also assumes that the Turing machine is still the best computational model for the time period that you are in, which is not necessarily true for the future, it is just true until this point in time.
Not really. Neural networks are good for determining non-linear relationships between inputs when there are hidden variables. In the examples above, the relationships are linear, and there are no hidden variables. But even if they were non-linear, a traditional ANN design would not be well suited to accomplish this. By carefully constructing the layers and tightly supervising the training, you could get a network to consistently produce the output 4.01, say, for the inputs: 2, 1 , and 2, but this is not only wrong, it's an inherently unreliable application of the technology.
This is the well known. As said, people disagree on the right course of action for trolley problem scenarios, but it should be noted that with self-driving cars, reliability is so high that these scenarios are really unlikely. So, not much effort will be put into the problems you are describing, at least in the short term.
Handwritten digit recognition is a standard benchmark in Machine Learning in the form of the. For example,, a python package for Machine Learning uses it as a tutorial example. The paper you cite uses this standard task as a proof of concept, to show that their system works.
There is a technique called in neural networks, which is used just for this same purpose. The pruning is done on the number of hidden layers. The process is very similar to the pruning process of decision trees. The pruning process is done as follows: However, there are for pruning neural nets, and it is also a.
A couple of points to elaborate on: Also and. As for the question if artificial intelligence can be created by using this kind of methods, my personal (easy) answer would be no, because they only relate data and probabilities and thus belong more to the statistics and machine learning branch. A longer answer needs to take into account the.
To my knowledge, this is very much an open research issue. Here is a paper by Prof Leslie Smith, an acknowledged expert on neuromorphic perceptual coding, which explains the importance of the notion of perceptual time for Artificial General Intelligence and sketches an architecture from which a notion of 'now' might emerge:.
It depends a bit on what you mean by 'quantum computer'. The 'conventional' notion is that quantum computation buys a (in some cases, exponential) speedup - it doesn't change what can be computed, just how quickly. In contrast, advocates of hypercomputation claim that quantum effects may make it possible to do infinite computations in finite time. Note, however, that this is not a mainstream belief - the reknowned logician Martin Davis has written an article claiming that hypercomputation is. Roger Penrose has also claimed that quantum vibrations in neural microtubules may be.
A neural net with even a single hidden layer is capable of Universal function approximation - it can approximate any continuous function 'as closely as you like'. Hence, one option would be to look for GOFAI applications that would benefit from this property - for example, in state-space search approaches where the utility of a state is not readily defined in advance, and could instead be learned.
It's possible to implement a form of curiosity-driven behavior without requiring full 'emotional intelligence'. One elementary strategy would be to define some form of similarity measure on inputs. More generally, Jurgen Schmidhuber has pioneered work on 'Artificial Curiosity/Creativity' and 'Intrinsic Motivation' and has written a number of papers on the subject: Here is a of a nice associated presentation.
Formally, a single hidden layer is sufficient to approximate a continuous function to any desired degree of accuracy, so in that sense, you never need more than 1. This is called the. Finding the best topology for a given problem is an open research problem. As far as I know, there are few universal 'rules of thumb' for this. For a given problem, one option is to apply a neuroevolutionary approach such as, which attempts to find a topology that works well for the problem at hand.
Over the last few years, evolutionary computation research has shown increasing interest in including some aspect of epigenetics. For example:
The ability to re-frame summarization as a problem for ANN is rather dependent on what kind of output you're looking for: you mentioned 'salient parts of the text'. One possibly is to use a deep learning approach that first chunks together words that belong in the same phrase as a single 'feature'. Another possibility is to identify both key words and relations between them. Here is some previous work on using neural nets for.
'Backprop' is short for 'backpropagation of error' in order to avoid confusion when using backpropagation term. Basically backpropagation refers to the method for computing the gradient of the case-wise error function with respect to the weights for a feedforward network Werbos. And backprop refers to a training method that uses backpropagation to compute the gradient. So we can say that a backprop network is a feedforward network trained by backpropagation. The 'standard backprop' term is a euphemism for the generalized delta rule which is most widely used supervised training method. Source: at FAQ of Usenet newsgroup comp.ai.neural-nets References:
Pseudo-random number generators are specifically defined to defeat any form of prediction via 'black box' observation. Certainly, some (e.g. linear congruential) have weaknesses, but you are unlikely to have any success in general in predicting the output of a modern RNG. For devices based on chaotic physical systems (e.g. most national lotteries), there is no realistic possibility of prediction. "Patterns or statistical association" is a much weaker criterion than 'prediction'. Some very recent work has applied topological data analysis to visualize patterns within the infamous Randu RNG.
I presume the proof the OP is referring to can be found in by Hava Siegelmann? In his article, the eminent computer scientist Martin Davis explains that there is nothing 'super Turing' about this formulation. EDIT: It's looking like the claim about rational weights being super-Turing is made in more recent paper by Siegelmann, which introduces an additional assumption of plasticity, i.e. that weights can be dynamically updated.
As far as I can see, there's no reason why you couldn't (for example) take the convolutional inputs to deepdream from adjacent sample points, rather than adjacent spatial positions, as is the case with image input. Given the 'self similar' nature of deep dream images, listening to this technique might be of interest/inspiration.
Most artificial neurons model biological neurons but in a very simplistic way. Nowadays, the main aim is to achieve better performance at prediction tasks. However, there is a body of literature in neuroscience that looks at. Neurons are complicated cells and our understanding of neurons is still not complete.
I tend to think this question is border-line and may get close. A few comments for now, though. wrongx There are (at least) two issues with reproducing the work of a company like DeepMind: Technicalities should be workable. Some people have reproduced some of the gaming stunts. AlphaGo is seemingly more complex and will require more work, yet that should be feasible at some point in the future (individuals may lack computing resources today). Data can be more tricky. Several companies open their data sets, but data is also the nerve of the competition.
As explained in an answer to, GAs are 'satisficers' rather than 'optimizers' and tend not to explore 'outlying' regions of the search space. Rather, the population tends to cluster in regions that are 'fairly good' according to the fitness function. In contrast, I believe the thinking is that novelty affords a kind of dynamic fitness, tending to push the population away from previously discovered areas.
Actually, yes. Remember, that due to the history of PHP development, some very good things has formed what we have now:
As per this So AI might be able to read our emotions as well in near future. I found that via facial expression, voice tone e.t.c, (just like us), obviously not what they are thinking in their brain.
is the term for systems where relatively simple agents work together to solve a complicated problem in a decentralized fashion. In general, distributed computing methods are very important for dealing with problems at scale, and many of them embrace decentralization in a deep way. (Given the reality of hardware failure and the massive size of modern datasets relative to individual nodes, the less work is passed through a central bottleneck, the better.) While there are people interested in doing computation on the blockchain, it seems to me like it's unlikely to be competitive with computation in dedicated clusters (like AWS).
Not just how much, but what kind of processing power: there're specially-crafted, and it has a, so it's not a lab-only project
The simple answer is "no, they aren't limited to images": CNNs are also being used for natural language processing. (See for an introduction.) I haven't seen them applied to graphical data yet, but I haven't looked; there are some obvious things to try and so I'm optimistic that it would work.
Most of the existing AI bots which can play games use deep search from possible space and choose the best move. This is done by most of the chess, Go, Tic-Tac-Toe, etc bots. However, there has been a recent breakthrough where (deep)neural nets with deep search techniques like monte-carlo search, etc; which might be more human-like and demonstrate a much more complex game behaviour than the above bots. One such example is the Google's Alpha-Go bot.
In general, the larger the training set, the better. See, though this article is quite dated (written in 2009). Xavier Amatriain, a researcher at Netflix has a where he discusses that more data can sometimes hurt algorithms. For deep neural networks in particular, it does not seem that we have hit these limits yet.
There has been previous research with promising results cited at length in the following recent article, and although they have limited training data, here is some which extends that research using an artificial neural network on enhancing a classifying algorithm's capacity to facilitate unspoken, or imagined, speech recognition by collecting and analyzing a large dataset of simultaneous EEG signal and video data streams. High Level Experiment Design The results show a notable improvement classifying thoughts when in conjunction with the video streams.
gives a description of mirror neurons in terms of Hebbian learning, a mechanism that has been widely used in AI. I don't know whether the formulation given in the article has ever actually been implemented computationally.
Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) can theoretically approximate any bounded, continuous function. There's no guarantee for a discontinuous function. There are plenty of important discontinuous functions, like, say, the prime counting function. The is simply equal to the number of primes less than or equal to. It has a discontinuity about each prime, so good luck trying to approximate this with a neural network! However, this function is extensively studied and extremely important in number theory. See the.
The following survey article by researchers from IIT Bombay summarizes recent advances in sarcasm detection:. In reference to your question, I do not think it is considered either extraordinarily difficult or open-ended. While it does introduce ambiguity that computers cannot yet handle, Humans are easily able to understand sarcasm, and are thus able to label datasets for sarcasm detection.
There has been a recent work in the same domain where neural networks (CNNs to be accurate) are used for the same purpose. Some info. about the research is: So, the paper uses CNNs, word and user embeddings for detecting sarcasm in text. There is also a on that. The paper uses sentiment of the tweet and compares with that of the other similar tweets:
It depends on the type of neural networks you are dealing with. For medium sized neural nets, the matrix approach is a very good way to do quick computations and even backpropogation of errors. One can even exploit sparse matrixes for understanding the sparse architecture of some neural nets. But, for very large neural nets, using matrix computations would be computationally very intensive. So, relevant methods like graph-based stores, etc are used for them depending on the purpose and the architecture.
There are several elementary techniques to try and move a search out of the basin of attraction of local optima. They include: See the excellent (and free online) book by Sean Luke for more details on these kind of techniques and some rules of thumb about when and how to use them.
For large ANNs, something equivalent to a 'sparse matrix format' is used in practice. In contrast to what is said in another answer given, considering an ANN as a graph doesn't actually buy very much, for two reasons:
AIXI is really a conceptual framework. All the hard work of actually compressing the environment still remains. To further discuss the question raised in Matthew Graves answer: given our current limited level of ability to represent complex environments, it seems to me that it doesn't make a lot of practical difference whether you start with AIXI as defining the 'top' of the system and working down (e.g. via supposedly generalized compression methods) or start at the 'bottom' and try solve problems in a single domain via domain-specific methods that (you hope) can subsequently be abstracted to provide cross-domain compression.
Have you read the book by Pedro Domingos? He discusses the present day machine learning algorithms. Their strengths, weaknesses and applications.
Deep learning is actually pretty useful (relative to other techniques) precisely when there is no simple mapping between input and output, and features from the raw input need to be aggregated and combined in complex ways by successive layers to form the output. As I pointed out in my answer to the, there is recent DL research which takes a natural language description as input and. Despite working in this general research area, I was personally surprised by this - the problem is significantly harder than the 'AI math' link you provide above.
Neuromorphic engineering offers various of ways of reproducing the brain’s processing ability. The recent technology can include IBM's multi-artificial-neuron computer, the world's first artificial nanoscale stochastic phase-change neurons. Check the: study. Other can include
I think in this case, you'll probably want to use a genetic algorithm to generate a topology rather than working on your own. I personally like. The original NEAT paper involves evolving weights for connections, but if you only want a topology, you can use a weighting algorithm instead. You can also mix activation functions if you aren't sure which to use. is an example of using backpropagation and multiple neuron types.
mentions to generate network weights or topologies. The paper, which also gives a short summary of neuroevolution techniques, provides an alternative approach to NEAT. It uses to evolve multiple activation functions.
The authors do actually give an English definition in terms of the well-known agent formulation of AI: It would seem that this becomes possible for a reinforcement learning agent such as AIXI in a formulation that uses semi-measures of probability (which need not sum up to 1), rather than the more traditional notion.
Matrix representation is beneficial for implementing neural networks in silicon. But for examining neural networks empirically it is sometimes good to visualise the synapse weight values as images or videos: exploration of a convolution neural network. The network seems to have a "filter" that just detects shoulders. A bit like a lock that only opens when it recognises the pattern of shoulders.
Yes, many people have worked on this sort of thing, due to its obvious industrial applications (most of the ones I'm familiar with are in the pharmaceutical industry). Here's that claims good results; following the trail of will likely give you more recent work.
The images that you provided may be unrecognizable for us. They are actually the images that we recognize but evolved using the evolutionary framework. While these images are almost impossible for humans to label with anything but abstract arts, the Deep Neural Network will label them to be familiar objects with 99.99% confidence. This result highlights differences between how DNNs and humans recognize objects. Images are either directly (or indirectly) encoded According to this More details and.
There are a variety of aspects where AI can help for the public good. Future studies of computational methods can contribute to a sustainable management ecosystem by its data acquisition, interpretation, integration and model fitting. is a leader in combining computer science and ecological sciences to build the new discipline of Ecosystem Informatics which studies methods for collecting, analyzing and visualizing data on the structure and function of ecosystems. His group is involved in many aspects of the ecosystem, such as: For further information about this work, check the following resources, see:
According to IBM Research organization in the response to the White House as part of, AI depends upon many long-term advances, not only from AI researchers but from many interdisciplinary teams of experts from many disciplines, including the following challenges: Source: Fundamental questions in AI research, and the most important research gaps (RFI questions 5 and 6). (link no longer available)
has a tutorial on getting a neural network to learn pong with reinforcement learning. His commentary on the current state of the field is interesting. He also provides a whole bunch of links (David Silver's catches my eye). Here are demos of DeepMinds game playing. Get links to the papers at Andrej Karpathy's blog above -
There are three typical use cases for the phrase 'superintelligent': Most uses that I see are definition 2, but the other two are also somewhat common. I typically follow I. J. Good and use for the first definition. (There are lots of arguments that something that fits definition 1 is likely to fit definition 2 as well, but this doesn't seem to be logically necessary.) Obviously, Deep Blue only counts for definition 3.
Douglas Hofstadter's architecture for solving letter-string analogy problems was deliberately engineered to maintain a semantically-informed notion of 'salience', i.e. given a variety of competing possibilities, tend to maintain interest in the one that is most compelling. Although the salience value of (part of) a solution is ultimately represented numerically, the means by which it determined is broadly intended to correspond (at least functionally) to the way 'selective attention' might operate in human cognition.
There does not appear to be a historical consensus on this. The (which does not come down on either side) gives an argument that the ability of MLPs to compute any Boolean function was widely known at the time (at the very least to McCulloch and Pitts). However, gives an account by someone present at the MIT AI lab in 1974, claiming that this was not common knowledge there, alluding to documentation in "Artificial Intelligence Progress Report: Research at the Laboratory in Vision, Language, and other problems of Intelligence" which is claimed to support this.
Concentration, perhaps easier to grasp as "focus" or "attention", has quite some history in AI. mentions CopyCat, and there was work with neural networks in the 80s as well (e.g. from, creator of the Neocognitron). More recently, attention in neural networks is. The mechanisms are applied to learning in deep neural networks.
Yes - it would seem that it is now possible to achieve more is required from the example you've given this paper describes a DL solution to a considerably harder problem -. Both of these can be described as regression problems (i.e. the goal is to minimize some loss function on the validation set), but the search space in the natural language case is much bigger.
Convolutional neural network can be applied not only for image recognition but also for video analysis and recognition, natural language processing, in games (e.g.) or even for by predicting the interaction between molecules and biological proteins. Therefore it can be used for variety of problems by using convolutional and subsampling layers connected to more fully connected layers. They're easier to train, because have fewer parameters than fully connected networks with the same number of hidden units.
Yes. Here are some of the most prominent ones and their respective state-of-the-art errors: You can check an updated list of solutions. Also, a more comprehensive list of modern datasets can be found.
We are getting there, with as usual some trade-off between quality and speed. For example shows some benchmarks (mAP = Mean Average Precision, higher is better; FPS = frame per second):
The answer by mentions the difficulty of building a ground truth database for aggressiveness. One alternative approach would be to attempt to operate at the concept level, which would allow the use of pre-existing ontologies such as ConceptNet. that describes this technique.
I would classify both as having / using elements of AI, yes. But I wouldn't say either represents a truly "intelligent" (in the AGI sense) program. But here's the rub. as you'll see in other questions asking about definitions of AI, there's a sort of memetic thing where anything that AI begins to do successfully, immediately stops being considered "AI". So AI is always an unreachable state, because it's always "something humans can do that computers can't" and once the computer can do it, it isn't AI anymore. So take that into consideration.
Combine those factors and you can understand why it's difficult to make progress in AI. In many ways, you can argue that we're shooting in the dark. Of course, we have made some progress, so we know we're getting some things right. But without a real comprehensive theory about how AI should/will work, we are reduced to a lot of trial and error and iteration to move forward.
IBM clearly don't provide all the details / "secret sauce" but there is some information out there on how Watson works. Some of the text search / retrieval stuff uses a technology called which IBM open-sourced a few years ago. It also uses Prolog and some custom C++ code. Some more information can be found.
In the broadest sense, the difference is that non-robotic A (G)I may not be possible because, as per, it could be that "Intelligence requires a body". More specifically, it could be that there are limitations to what the traditional (well, 1950s style) 'Brain in a vat' notion of an AI is capable of comprehending, in the absence of experience of embodied experience such as force, motion and "the raw, unawshed world".
A simple way to do it would be lexicograpical sentiment analysis. To do that, you'd need a list of words categorized with a score that reflects "friendly" vs "aggressive" sentiment. For an example of setting up a SA system using Spark, see. To do what you're talking about, substitute AFINN for a different dataset. You might have to create said dataset yourself, if there isn't one "out there" like you want. Note that this isn't the most sophisticated technique in the world, but it's been found to be surprisingly effective.
Siri and Cortana are AI to some extent. The usual label is "weak AI" (also called "narrow" or "soft" AI). It turns out the explicitly refers to Siri: Important to note that "mixing" weak AIs does not make a "stronger" AI, by some arguments (see Searle's argument), but there is no consensus on this topic yet.
It depends on what you mean by "know what is happening". Conceptually, yes: ANN perform nonlinear regression. The actual expression represented by the weight matrix/activation function (s) of an ANN can be explicitly expanded in symbolic form (e.g. containing sub-expressions such as ). However, if by 'know' you mean predicting the output of some specific (black box) ANN, by some other means, then the obstacle is the presence of chaos in a ANN that has. Here's also some relatively recent work by Hod Lipson on understanding ANNs through.
Not sure if this is what you are searching for, but google extracted images from networks when they were fed with white noise. See. This kind of represents what the network knows.
I'd personally be more inclined to try longstanding deterministic methods such as (for typing errors) or (for homonyms arising from transcribed speech). At the very least, I'd use those as a baseline for any more 'AI-based' approach.
As far as I know, Tesla cars autopilot is not a 100% AI pilot, it's an assitant: as it detects hands off wheel it slows down, so it's incorrect to speak about AI mistake: it is not trained/designed to drive a car all by itself. A human driver is responsible in that incident.
I would also look at Minimum Edit Distances such as the Levenshtein distance. You could use a dynamic programming technique such as the Viterbi Algorithm. If you don't have a dictionary to work against, you may want to train with a Markov Chain model using a known "good" text. The Viterbi Algorithm could be used again to solve the model for the text being considered.
I believe if an AI achieves sentience, it should be treated the same way we are required to treat any other sentient animal. This is belief though, there is no established ethics for AI. But there were no ethics for animals a couple of centuries ago.
Chieko Asakawa is a major researcher in this area, and the linked TED talk is probably a good introduction to the state of the art as of 2015. a link to a 2016 paper on a smartphone navigation system. Guide animals perform manipulation tasks as well as identification tasks, and so it's not clear if those could be replaced well at all. (A smartphone that reads a label is a great help, but a dog that knows which bottle to grab and deliver to you is probably a much better help.)
Basically a is a mechanical or virtual artificial agent which exhibit intelligent behavior . on website wrote the following to clear things up: Source:
Even a simple multilayer perceptron can sort input data to some extent, as you can see and. However, neural networks for sequential data seem more appropriate, as they can handle sequences of variable lengths. It has been done with an (Long Short-Term Memory), (Hierarchical Attentive Memory) and an (Neural Turing Machine).
The underlying abstraction (which is essentially what you'd be using the first network for) is that of reducing the state-space of the raw input via feature extraction/synthesis and/or dimensionality reduction. At present, there are few definite rules for doing this: practice is more a question of 'informed trial and error'. If you add some information to your question regarding what has been previously attempted in this area (e.g. on the platform), this it might be possible to offer some more specific advice.
The well-known 'Eliza' program (Weizenbaum, ~1964) would appear to be the first. Eliza was designed to model the emotionally-neutral response of a psychotherapist and this masks some of the weaknesses of its limited underlying pattern-matching mechanisms.
The 2015 paper entitled " " applied various types of convnets for detecting pornography. The proposed architecture achieved 94.1% accuracy on the NPDI dataset, which contains 800 videos (400 porn, 200 non-porn "easy" and 200 non-porn "difficult"). More traditional computer vision methods achieved 90.9% accuracy. The proposed architecture also performs very well regarding the ROC curve. There does not seem to exist any works regarding the other aspects of NSFW yet.
The Control Problem is, in short, the idea that AI will eventually be much better decision-makers than humans. If we don't set things up correctly beforehand, we won't get a chance to fix it afterwards, because AI will have effective control. There are three main areas of discussion with regards to the Control Problem:
Remembering that artificial intelligence has been an academic endeavour for the longest time, Prolog was amongst one of the early languages used as part of the study and implementation of it. It has rarely made its way into large commercial applications, having said that, a famous commercial implementation is in. The contributed to the language and it was sometimes referred to as "Edinburgh Prolog". It is there as part of the artificial intelligence course. The reason why Prolog is considered powerful in AI is because the language allows for easy management of recursive methods, and pattern matching. To quote, and:
The neural networks can be easily fooled or hacked by adding certain structured noise in image space due to ignoring non-discriminative information in their input. For example: So basically the high confidence prediction in certain models exists due to a ' combination of their locally linear nature and high-dimensional input space '. Published as a conference paper at (work by Dai) suggest that transferring discriminatively trained parameters to generative models, could be a great area for further improvements.
Unlike backpropagation, evolutionary algorithms do not require the objective function to be differential with respect to the parameters you aim to optimize. As a result, you can optimize "more things" in the network, such as activation functions or number of layers, which wouldn't be possible in the standard backpropagation. Another advantage is that by defining the mutation and crossover functions, you can influence how the parameter search space should be explored.
Crossover allows to combine two parents (vs. mutation, which only uses one parent). In some cases, it is useful (e.g., if you train a FPS bot, if one parent is good at shooting and another parent is good at moving, it makes sense to combine them). In some other cases, it is not.
Mutation is usually defined to be a global operator, i.e. iterated mutation is (eventually) capable of reaching every point in the vector space defined by the geneome. In that sense, mutation alone is certainly 'enough'. Regarding the motivation for crossover - from, p42: (where * means "either 0 or 1") So the idea is that crossover works by spreading building blocks quickly throughout the population. Also note that crossover is not a global operator. If the only operator is crossover then (also from p42): For this reason, crossover is generally used together with some global mutation operator.
For a more intelligent approach than random or exhaustive searches, you could try a genetic algorithm such as NEAT. However, this has no guarantee to find a global optima, it is simply an optimization algorithm based on performance and is therefore vulnerable to getting stuck in a local optima.
As per my answer to, we don't know what the ingredients for a 'true AI' are. Via the Turing Test and its variants, the best we can do is "know one when we see one". Curiosity certainly appears necessary for intelligence, though it doesn't seem sufficient - a lemming-like creature curious to see what's at the bottom of a steep cliff might not survive long enough to learn caution, even if it had the learning mechanisms to do so. Here is some work by Schmidhuber on. has also done quite a lot of work on this and Active Learning/Intrinsic motivation.
Most of the algorithms (based on, e.g.) haven't been proven to be highly effective in terms of real-time image processing. However the following studies discusses such algorithms for real-time texture synthesis: Source: Above list suggested on project.
Artificially intelligent computer programs should be able to be at the same level or beat humans at every game that we play. This is because games follow rules that are scriptable, and is designed to focus on one specific game and learn from its failures. The difference between humans and artificial intelligence is that artificial intelligence focuses on one specific task like learning to master Go while our brain is dedicated to mastering multiple tasks like.living. Even Arimaa, a game designed to be difficult for artificially intelligent systems was beaten by a bot called Sharp:.
Not all games (or even board games) are computationally algorithmic. Even the least skilled player is likely to trounce the hottest pattern-matching algorithm in a game of (for example). If you want to say that the movement of pieces upon successful completion of a task is only ancelary to the object of the game, than your answer will be largely self-selecting. A sufficiently sophisticated algorithm will brute force a computational problem better than human intuition…
In the real world, decisions will be made based on the law, and, the law generally favors inaction over action.
Further to Franck's answer, there may be better optima (even global optima) that exist in the opposite direction to the gradient (which may be in the direction of some local optima). Evolutionary algorithms have scope to search the surrounding area, while backpropagation will always move in the direction of the gradient. With no guarantee (due to their randomness), evolutionary algorithms may be capable of finding solutions that backpropagation simply cannot.
A neural network can be used but must be trained to expect the information (pattern of data, pixels or groupings of loose range such as color, and location) at any given location in the network, first a vision system must but implemented. Then a facial recognition, multiple partial individual body fixing (finding body part and there partners to a person) then training on some states and you'll have it work. MIT have done research and have made a seemy accurate implementation. I'm an AI Researcher and Software Engineer for the past 7 years.
MIT have done research and implemented an incomplete version of action video recognition. With the use of MATLAB, NNetworks and a large set of training videos. My suggested set of comments on my previous answer indicate the usage of a multi interconnected NNet, verus MIT's image based NNet.
It's impossible to give a definitive 'yes' answer to your question, since that would require proving that alternatives cannot exist. More philosophically, it depends on what you mean by "preference over world states": However counter-intuitive it might seem, it is conceivably possible to create Strong AI purely from local condition-action rules, in which there is no global concept of 'preference value' and/or no integrated notion of 'world state'.
Simply put, we don't know how to create Strong Artificial Intelligence yet, so we don't know what is or isn't required to create it. At best we can engage in "informed speculation", in which case I'd say that the answer is more likely "yes" than "no". But that's basically just a hunch. If you're interested in a pretty good overview of what "pieces" might be required to create Strong AI, and if you haven't read it yet, ' book The Master Algorithm might be of interest.
Yes, as mentioned in other answers, Prolog is actually used in IBM Watson. Prolog doesn't get much "hype" and "buzz" these days, but it is absolutely still used. As always, it has certain specific areas where it shines, and specific techniques that map well to its use. Specifically, things like,, and some applications may involve extensive use of Prolog.
One popular technique for doing this is to use, an evolutionary computation approach which maintains a population of pattern detectors. Here is a.
I wouldn't focus only on "deep learning" unless you have some specific reason for doing so. There may be other techniques which could be as effective, or more effective. One approach I've seen used for something similar was. For one example of using ILP to reason about elements of biochemistry, see That's not exactly about detecting disease, but it does sort of illustrate the broad idea of reasoning about states and reactions involving metabolic pathways in biochemistry, using ILP. Possibly the basic idea could be adapted more towards detecting disease.
Section 4.2 of has a wealth of information on alternative ways of encoding graph structures via Genetic Algorithms. With particular regard to evolving ANNs, I would personally not be inclined to implement this sort of thing 'from scratch': The field of neuroevolution has been around for some time, and the implementation some of the methods, such as Neuroevolution of Augmenting Topologies now incorporate the results of much practical experience. According to the above link:
The 2016 finals haven't started yet, they will start on Saturday, 17 September 2016. In the 2015 finals or before that, nobody won the Gold Medal or the Silver Medal. The most up-to-date data can be found, where we can find both the results from 2015 and the timeline of the 2016 contest.
Second question first: Data is stored in an ANN in the form of weights in the adjacency matrix between neurons. During training, these weights are updated by a learning algorithm (such as). First question: according to award-winning neuroscientist Tim Bliss: A protein called the NMDA receptor plays a key roll in the strengthening of synaptic connections (which is more broadly achieved by a form of ).
The ImageIdentify project uses the highly automated " " and as part of Wolfram Language API integration. It relies on a complex collection of meta-algorithms and built-in ' '. It has a built-in classifier trained from a large dataset using (WDF). However the main classifier is based on the deep neural networks. Source: The algorithm isn't perfect and misidentification are more likely to be caused by 'irrelevant objects repeatedly being in training images for a particular type of object'. You can read more at.
You seem to be wanting some description of the 'style' of an image. To make that work in general, I'd guess that would actually require quite a lot of pre-processing to present 'texture elements' (rather than pixels) as the basic features. This is quite speculative, but one approach might be to use as a means of extracting these. Whether 'spatial adjacency' (and hence CNN) is then the best approach to make higher-level decisions about these elements is (AFAIK) a matter for experiment.
There are several approaches as to how this can be achieved. One recent study from 2015 about uses the action recognition framework based on the three main steps of feature extraction (shape, post or contextual information), dictionary learning to represent a video, and classification . A few examples of methods: Here are the results based on training of 10 action classes based on the UCF sports dataset: Source:.
It is a labor-intensive process, but that does sound excessive. If you have a g2.8xlarge, make sure you are using the using the GPU flags for neural-style, which will cut your render time by an order of magnitude. That having been said, it is building a rather large network (depending on your parameters), and a 1024x768 image is a lot of input to work with. It will take time, but shouldn't take more than a couple hours with the GPU flag enabled correctly.
They are all called Monte Carlo because all of them are a different version of the canonical Monte Carlo algorithm. The canonical version of Monte Carlo algorithm is a stochastic algorithm to determine an action based in a tree representation. The differences among all these version are their exploration and exploitation mechanisms, and it is necessary to analyse each of them to define which one fits in your case.
Real time style transfer and neural doodle is very much possible and is an active topic I see users working on to improve upon. The basic idea is to do only feed forward propagation at test time and train with appropriate loss functions at train time. is a good starting point to understand a methodology for this purpose.
I think the algorithm has changed minimally, but the necessary hardware has been trimmed to the bone. The number of gate transitions are reduced (perhaps float ops and precision too), as are the number of data move operations, thus saving both power and runtime. Google suggests their TPU achieves a 10X cost saving to get the same work done.
Tensor operations The major work in most ML applications is simply a set of (very large) tensor operations e.g. matrix multiplication. You can do that easily in an ASIC, and all the other algorithms can just run on top of that.
There is a small survey of continuous states, actions and time in reinforcement learning in my. Regarding books, seems to be pretty up-to-date from the excerpts I've read.
Asimov made the three laws specifically to prove that no three laws are sufficient, no matter how reasonable they seem at first. I know a guy that knew the guy and he confirmed this.
The neural network is typically a set size once it's created. You'd have to create a network big enough for your data-set.
Here is an answer by Carlos E. Perez to the question To sum up: we have some ideas, but we're not quite sure.
I don't know that it has yielded any actual reports or regulations yet, but in the USA, the White House has been running a series of interagency workshops / working groups dedicated to. Some of those sessions have been dedicated to legal / governance issues.
I would think you could use a, perhaps or or something of that nature. Or, if you want a simple file format, you could use one of the many formats that exist for representing graphs. You can find a list and overview of some of them. Another option would be to store them in using a like.
We are getting pretty good at image generation, some examples: From : Then there is another research direction around evolutionary algorithms, for example:
Convince the person that they are in fact in the box. And the only way out is to press the open button.
I think "curiosity" in AI would signify a 'desire to search.' It's an interest, that is experienced by some agent, in making something known that was previously unknown. So to define how much curiosity a chat bot should have, we should: While simplistic, those steps would constitute a state of affairs sufficient to describe "curiosity," in my opinion.
is a blog post summarizing a research paper called. This research paper details some researchers' plans to implement "mental models" for NPCs in video games. NPCs will gather information about the world, and convey that knowledge to other people (including human players). However, they will also "misremember" that knowledge (either "mutating" that knowledge or just forgetting about it), or even lie: Later on in the research paper, they detailed their future plans for lying: The research paper also detailed how other video game developers attempted to create lying NPCs, with an emphasis on how their system differs:
Given this which is being given by Sebastian Thrun who had a TED talk which had nowhere near the same level of detail but had similar conclusions, it looks like the lidar system used by google's automated car system has decent resolution out to at least 30m picking out mobile bodies in the static background and then identifying it. So it should have plenty of time to brake and stop long before there was any risk to the pedestrian attempting to cross the street. Skip to about 6:40 in the video to see a visual representation of the detection system.
I recall reading papers about such systems, if I understand you correctly, but can't recall the titles at the moment. The idea was to use character-based generative RNNs, train them on sequences encoded like "datadatadatadata|answer", and then when feeding in "otherdatadata|" then it would continue to generate some kind of expected answer. But, as far as I recall, that was just a neat illustration since if you have the data to do something supervised, then you'd get better results by conventional methods.
The easiest language to learn by a bot is the language that has the most training data available. Sure, language structure matters, but when there are multiple order of magnitude differences in the size of training data, then that overwhelms everything else. One should expect English, French or Chinese to get much better results than any constructed language even if (especially if?) the system includes no language-specific tuning.
If you limited yourself to 12.6 watts, you wouldn't get much done. Just lookup the power consumption for a modern GPU, look at the size networks people are training on those, and then scale down. For reference, modern GPU's appear to. Clearly energy efficiency is one area where the human brain is still far head of ANN's.
126 million artificial neurons at 12.6 Watts, with IBM's True North Back in 2014, chip was pushing 1 million neurons at less than 100mW. So that's roughly 126 million artificial neurons at 12.6 Watts. A has 70 million neurons. they can build a human-brain scale True North mainframe at a "mere" 4kW. Once 3D transistors come to market, I think we'll catch up to animal brain efficiency pretty fast.
You mean real numbered weights (specifically, ir rational). This would require a machine that has unlimited precision over irrational values. I've seen machine parts that have many qualities. I've never seen one that has unlimited qualities. QM may give us some magical transistors that can hold an unlimited number of different values - or by deferring computation into the future and then teleporting the results back into the past (our present). Outside of that, for classical systems, you'd need a analog device that can output irrational values with unlimited precision. I don't think we've discovered any devices that can do that.
AI is a rather unusual research field in that the label persists more because it represents a highly desired goal, rather than (as with most other fields) the means, substrate or methodology by which that goal is achieved. Despite recent efforts in AGI, I don't think that AI is actually a very unified or coherent field. This is not necessarily a bad thing - when attempting to mimic the most complex phenomenon known to us (i.e. human intelligence) then may be our best way of making progress.
I think that's pretty much it. I mean, clearly there is some overlap, but I feel like most people who use "cognitive science" are referring more to understanding human intelligence for its own sake. Artificial Intelligence, OTOH, is more about implementing "intelligence" on a computer, where the techniques used may or may not be influenced by research done under the rubric of cognitive science.
Artificial intelligence is much more than a research tool for cognitive science. Of course there is some overlapping and researchers of both fields working together. But AI is also broadly used in economics, security (for example face recognition software), advertising, or in the development of games and of course in robotics (autonomous systems). The difference is - as you already mentioned - that cognitive science deals with living things while AI tries to create an intelligence artificially (AI tries to deliver the brain, the mind or the consciousness for a hardware device that then hopefully solves various problems).
Read: 'Artificial Intelligence - A modern approach' by Russell and Norvig. 'Fluid Concepts and Creative Analogies' by Douglas Hofstadter. 'Machine Learning and Pattern Recognition' by Bishop 'The Emotion Machine' by Marvin Minsky
One of them is certainly. Doctor Wallace was the original author of the spec and is Chief Science Officer at PandoraBots.
I believe this is exactly the kind of test where Doug Lenat's would do very well at? But I can't answer the question: how much of that corpus could it answer correctly? Probably quite a lot! (and how many humans could pass that test? probably not all of them, but many can.) [but is cyc considered an AI? probably not. so I may be out of topic. But imo it's database should be incorporated to any AI that reaches some kind of "intelligence".]
Take a look at by three people at Bright. (Sadly, it's paywalled and I couldn't easily find a ungated copy, so I don't have a summary for you.) The abstract:
You could parallelize the search by dividing the global space in distinct regions/subsets. Then apply in each region a local search. This way you can search the global space systematically, more exhaustively and perhaps in different ways (e.g by applying a different local search method to each region). Finally you can compare the results and choose the best one.
uses memory to rule out parts of the neighborhood for local search, allowing the trajectory to typically pass through local optima instead of getting stuck in them.
Search is important for at least two reasons. First, searching is one of the early and major consumers of advanced machine learning, as finding the correct result for a search query boils down to predicting the click-through rate for query-result combinations. More relevant results means more clicks, more traffic, and more revenue. Second, many planning and optimization problems can be recast as search problems. An AI deciding on a plan to route packages through a network is searching the space of possible plans for a good one.
Oh yeah, definitely. Just to pick one example, you have at Indiana. I think most of what they do would fall under the rubric of GOFAI (or at least closer to that than the statistical machine learning stuff). Beyond that, just go to the and browse around the. You'll see plenty of neural networks and probabilistic stuff, but you'll also find the papers by the folks doing symbolic processing / GOFAI as well.
I'm not sure what Google is using to perform that task, but most companies use region based convolutional neural nets to locate traffic signs and other objects. But other companies use a deep neural network + bag of words approach to find objects. See: which shows a general approach, to get the exact location you can use Feature Matching or Random Boxes.
Presumably what happens to people in the famous experiment, is that an incongruous object is simply filtered out of human perception. If we wish to interpret this mechanistically, we could hypothesize that a 'gorilla object' is simply not presented by low levels of perception to our higher level pattern recognizers because the lower levels are not biased towards the construction of 'gorilla-like' features in such a context. The recent Tesla fatality (arising from a failure to distinguish between the sky and a high-sided white truck) could conceivably be considered to be an example of this. See.
I'm not an expert in this area, but it would appear to depend on the choice of activation function: That said, appears to give some conditions (specifically for dynamic ANNs) for which networks with activation function involving can be Lipschitz continuous, so possibly the above is not the whole story.
Training happens once you have a result. If the result is good (maybe you won in pong, or you improved your highscore in breakout) all the actions in the game are "supported" by backpropagation, if the result is bad, all the actions in the game are suppressed. This sounds weird because in each game regardless of the end result you'll have many good and bad actions, but it works if you keep it up for many thousands of games.
The AI agent can be designed in such a way that it could consist of two major components: The selection of who has the rights to manage this state depends on what rights have been bestowed upon the AI agent itself. If the rights provided is that of a human citizen, then the right to sentence to death state is as per the legislature a human citizen would follow. If the right of the AI agent is no different from that of a basic machine, then the owner of the agent would have to right to activate the death state.
One solution to this could involve a fusion of a decision tree and ANN for a multilevel classification. A decision tree can help with predicting the possible category of the instance to classify. Then, the ANN at the leaves of the tree can produce the final classification. For example, in image recognition, the tree can decide what category of object to identify (eg., landscape, people, vehicles, etc.) and the ANN for the appropriate type can predict exactly what object it is. In vehicles, for example, car, bus, bike, etc.
In the abstract, mechanisms for self-recognition (I personally prefer the phrase 'metacognition', since it carries fewer spurious associations) and recognition of intelligence in other systems can be considered to be pretty much equivalent. In fact, both can be characterized in the standard percept/action framework: the task in both cases involves (however coarsely) classifying/predicting the behaviour of a black box system. Such tasks can be universally characterized in terms of frameworks such as or (more recently).
The general research area is known as. It is generally framed as a supervised learning problem, with the input presented as raw text, and the desired output the corresponding parse tree. The training set often consists of both positive and negative examples. There is no single best method for achieving this, but some of the techniques that have been used to date include:
The umbrella term for your problem is called natural language processing (NLP) -- a topic under artificial intelligence. There are many subtopics to this field including language semantics, grammatical analysis, parts of speech tagging, domain specific context analysis, etc.
Deep neural networks could - in principle - be a component of an, yes. Ensemble method basically just means use multiple algorithms and combining their output somehow. Other than that, I don't see any special connection between deep learning and the idea of ensemble methods. DL is just one more tool in the toolkit.
You should think of them as different approaches. A deep neural net is a single independent model, whereas ensemble models are ensembles of many independent models. The primary connection between the two is, a particular method of training deep neural nets that's inspired by ensemble methods.
and are the older terms for (artificial general intelligence) and narrow AI. At least that's how I have seen it used and wikipedia seems to agree. I personally haven't seen Searle's definition of "weak and strong AI" in use much, but maybe the shift to the newer terms came about in part because Searle successfully confused the issue.
Others already mentioned: so I will add another possibility: using convolutions different number of times depending on the size of input. Here is an which backs up this approach: Taken from page 354, 9.7 Data Types, 3rd paragraph. You can read it further to see some other approaches.
You could argue that some approaches do, and some systems based on the could conceivably fit this regime as well.
Whether or not a label fits any particular instance depends on what you're using the label for. If something specific is riding on whether this approach is a 'heuristic' or not, that context is important. But I wouldn't call this a heuristic, because I think of that as a shortcut for solving a problem, not either storing a solution or reformulating the problem (which is how I'd think of this).
This problem is called. If you have a trainings set of images with boxed objects you can just train a neural network to directly predict the box. I.e. the output has the same dimension as the input and the NN learns to assign each pixel the probability of belonging to a certain object. If you don't have such a convenient dataset you could just recursively narrow the location down by feeding parts of the image to the network until you find the smallest part that still fully activates a certain classification. they try a mixture of these two approaches.
does work in deep learning for robotics, and one of the projects they've tackled is manipulating clothes. Here's a of their robot folding laundry (one piece at a time). There are also companies attempting to market this; seven dreamers makes the and claims that it will start taking pre-orders in 2017.
The core question to whether or not an AI is adaptable or not is whether or not it supports. That doesn't mean using the Internet to learn things; that means continuing to accept training data during the functioning of the system. This is (mostly) independent of the underlying architecture; in evolutionary approaches one can continue to breed generations with a shifting fitness function or with neural networks one can continue to backpropagate errors, and so on with other approaches.
There have been extensive studies within evolutionary computation in the area of and for doing exactly this. The advantages of this approach include greater population diversity (which is particularly useful when the problem is multiobjective) and the potential for concurrent execution of each separate population. See also the answers to the question. With specific reference to genetic programming, is a recent paper that uses a parallel island model.
In any case, it appears that much of his past work on Github involves procedural generation. Which is AI. ish. Unless there's more to it, which we can't see because half the site is down. appears to offer an analysis of combining procedural generation with game AI. From the abstract: from 2015 on AI and procedural generation, which discusses Angelina at length. This article links to from 2013. Here's an excerpt:
Yes. A totally random algorithm could solve any problem given unlimited time and a perfect fitness function. All you need to do is give the GA some new random population members each generation and you're guaranteed to find the solution eventually. Even if you keep only descendants of the previous generation, setting the mutation rate and number of crossovers high enough could effectively get you random individuals.
Use something like Word2Vec. If a particular node has two edges that are very far from each other, besides the node in question, split the node into word and word nodes.
A method that could possibly work is utilising optical illusions such as one where two lines down a hallway are identical but one seems longer to the human eye, then they could be prompted with a multiple choice question as to the state of the line, which to our eyes looks longer, but to a computer, is still the same length of line. Of course, there is always the issue of people with eye based disabilities not being able to complete them, but different illusions could be used to accommodate that.
You can train DNN to learn compute any abstract concept just by making that abstract concept as the label (output) in the training dataset. For example there are projects which detects emotions from peoples photos.
The intution that I have about these is that generative are "from abstract to concrete" whereas discriminative models are "from concrete to abstract". For example: Detecting if a photo has a cat or not is about going from the photo i.e concrete to the abstract concept of a cat. Whereas generating a photo of a cat given some abstract properties about the cat is going from abstract to concrete.
There is of course a vast amount of work in the area of Automatic Theorem Proving, but most of it is simply concerned with proof, rather than human notions of beauty, elegance, parsimony etc. There has however been some work in this general area over the years:
Any machine with a sufficient level of integrated purpose driven behavior - that exhibits agency in an autopoietic, self-preserving way - will come to be viewed as "alive." Chess programs, not so much; self-driving cars, slightly; simulated robot animals, even more so. It has to do with purpose driven behavior and a richness of multi-domain functionality. The more complex agency it has, the more sympathetic we will be towards it.
An umbrella term for the application of heuristic techniques to software development is Search-Based Software Engineering (SBSE). SBSE emerged as a distinct activity around the turn of the century, with a strong initial focus on automating the generation/prioritization of test cases. With respect to some of your specific queries:
A popular dataset is the fisher iris dataset. It consists of 150 samples each with a dimensionality of 4. You can find it at
There are a ton of sample datasets our there you can play with. A bunch of good ones install with R in the datasets package. Luckily you can download them independently if you're not an R user. Try You might also be interested in the which is one of the canonical databases used in handwriting recognition research. Beyond that, you can look at / ask on and/or and you'll find all sorts of useful datasets. And finally, don't overlook the.
It's an interesting question about what makes humans unique. There is a good book on the subject titled by. One task that a computer can't handle (for now at least) is ranking important things. For example, CAPTCHA asks you to order a random list of things (small one, five or six items) by importance. This particular exercise requires AI to take decisions (not always rational) based on human judgement.
Safety is often put in focus by journalists. Although there is potential to make the roads safer, I don't think that is the driving force behind the push for self-driving cars. The main advantage of self-driving cars is that this will reduce costs for businesses, while increasing efficiency (both fuel and time). From the perspective of the public, the self-driving cars are attractive, because they will turn the task of driving, into commute. Activity that requires attention will be replaced with somewhat free time.
According to, a problem is said to be AI-complete if it requires generalized, human-level intelligence, that is, requires strong AI. The Turing test and its variants are the best ways we have of measuring this. See, for example,. As suggested in, in order for the Turing test to be meaningful, the interrogator has a responsibility to ask questions which are both deep and meaningful. It, therefore, seems likely that testing for strong AI is in itself an AI-complete task.
The answer can be simplified, if consciousness means human consciousness then. What would the commercial application of a Human look like/be? So now every one know the commercial applications of Humans.
The didn't quite keep up with Kurzweil's predictions. But if you also s, his prediction for 2009 is pretty accurate. I think Moore's law slowed down recently and has now been pretty much. How much that will affect the 2019 prediction remains to be seen. Maybe the industry will hit its stride again with non-silicon based chips, maybe not. And, of course, whether hitting Kurzweil's estimate of the computing power of the human brain will make an appreciable difference for the development of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) is another question altogether.
A relatively simple option which uses AI techniques that are 'traditional' for adversarial games (and which is therefore less of a 'research project' than the use of Machine Learning) is. The ingredients for this are: Traditionally specified for two opponents, the minimax algorithm looks a specified number of moves ahead (alternating between opponents at each turn) and attempts to find the world state that maximizes the quality measure for one opponent whilst minimizing it for the other. An extension of the two-player algorithm to n opponents (as seemingly required by the OP) is given in.
Not yet. / are still in their infancy. We can now synthesize simple bacteria (see Craig Venter's and also) but definitely nothing that may be called 'rational' in human standards.
Normally one node/layer applies linear fitting of the the input to the hypothesis, in other words uses linear function . Adding layers chains liner functions, potentially allowing fitting higher order functions. A great explanation can be found.
A feed forward neural network without hidden nodes can only find linear decision boundaries. However, most of the time you need non-linear decision boundaries. Hence you need hidden nodes with a non-linear activation function. The more hidden nodes you have, the more data you need to find good parameters, but the more complex decision boundaries you can find.
I hope you are not talking about the neural networks which are currently winning all competitions in machine learning (MLPs, CNNs, RNNs, Deep Residual Networks,.). Those were once used as a model for neurons, but they are only very loosely related to what happens in real brain cells. Spiking networks should be much closer to real neurons. I've heard that the Hodgkin-Huxley model is quite realistic. However - in contrast to the models I named above - there seems not to be an effective training algorithm for spiking networks. It's not that simple:
One critical part of AI is machine learning (ML). The common definition of ML by Mitchell is If this type of program is useful in an "everyday application" depends on the application. Here are some examples which would not be possible without ML:
You can find articles via Google. is a paper about ML for a card game. Instead of articles, I'd recommend checking out a course on ML (i.e. Coursera and Udacity have good free online courses).
I'd like to add, self-driving cars would also be excellent for disabled people who would otherwise not be able to drive. Adds a lot more autonomy to vulnerable people
To answer this question, you must first know what is intelligence, and since there is no clear line between intelligent and not, this question is more philosophical rather than technical. In my opinion, intelligence is the ability to define a problem and find a way to solve it using memory and reasoning. Since a genetic algorithm follows this structure, I would say that it falls under the category of artificial intelligence.
In theory, if one could build a computing device that matched or exceeded the cognitive capabilities of a sentient being, it should be possible. (Singlarity adherents believe we will one day be able to transfer the human mind into an artificial computing platform, and it logically follows that one could "hack" such a mind, or build from the ground up, to create a truly Artificial Intelligence.) But this may be like fusion power, where the old adage is that it is "always 20 years away."
Yes, there is. A quick search found this: . In the abstract, they write Under figure 2, they write In section 4, they write If you need more papers related, you could use a tool like to find related papers.
Algorithms are designed to become more efficient at this by modifying internal parameters and testing these changes. I hope that provides a general overview of the subject. To find out more, take a look at an.
Speaker identification is quite widely researched domain. Modern approach would be to map speaker information to i-vector, a real-valued vector of 200-400 components that characterizes speaker fully. i-vectors allow very precise speaker identification and verification. For more information you can check i-vector Also you can check state of the art in the results of For implementation, you can check the following from Kaldi. For best accuracy i-vectors are extracted with DNN UBMs, watch out that GMM UBMs are less accurate. For more in-depth information about speaker recognition methods and algorithms check this.
It will not be single DNN architecture, rather it will be a collection of different DNN architectures that are used together to make the final decision. Convolutions are using the images/videos from the camera. Other architectures use other sensory sources. These DNNs will be trained to compute the high-level features from their sensory sources and then those high-level features will probably be fed into an LSTM (or some other form of RNN) that is trained with some form of Reinforcement learning algorithm to compute the action (like slowing down, applying breaks etc).
Assuming an AI was built out of a mechanical husk, mirroring the human brain exactly; complete with chemical signals and all. An AI should theoretically be capable of feeling/processing emotions.
I guess one of the simplest approach would be train CNN to detect the object in a given image i.e the CNN has single output whole value indicates the probability of the object being in image and then just apply the CNN by segmenting the image into the desired sections and selecting the section which has the highest and good enough probability. For better results I would suggest to train the CNN on the object images with very less other information aka other objects in the images.
Yes, it is possible, and has actually been done in the past. The University of Antwerp created a . It focused on the tag only though (even though it did answer one question). Its accuracy was pretty good, and the bots in the tests did earn some reputation. So I assume it is possible. But do note that the last bot in the tests revealed that it was a bot, and thus got banned. So if you reveal that the account you are running the bot on is a bot, there is a high chance that it will get banned.
Well, it depends of the level of the AI. You can create an AI super autonomous with deep learning capabilities and so on, but in the robotic type only. If you'd create an AI like EVA in the Ex-Machina movie, humanoid form, deep neural transmissions and with cognitive dissonance, then it could feel. The 'AI' problem its not the chemical and neural transmissions, its the consciousness.
For normal, you need to have the model, i.e. the transition probability, denoted by. With Q-learning, you use the current reward and the already stored Q value: The relation between the value function and the function is that the function is simply the value of the action, such that is the highest, that is,.
Metaphorically: make it so depressed it commits suicide. As per my answer to, the idea is to feed it a sequence of inputs that will cause it to become (permanently) inactive. The technical details of how this might be achieved (and they are somewhat technical) can be found in.
This quote is from an article titled, retrieved 08 Nov 2016. Here's an excerpt that outlines what the technological, practical solution to the problem. There article also contains the following fascinating paragraph.
Nuke it from orbit - it's the only way to be sure If you want to be really sure you destroy everything of the AI, you'll need to launch an EMP (electromagnetic pulse) from the orbit (there are different ways to achieve this, one would be an atomic bomb, but there are better ones). EMPs will destroy every electronic device it hits without causing really much damage to humans. Also an interesting read on a similar topic: Especially this is gonna be interesting:
This includes various journals for artificial intelligence applied to various domains. Some of those are: There are many more. You can refer to any of those journals and explore the research done by AI enthusiasts and researchers.
Your approach would definitely work. I would recommend training a variety of classifiers and comparing their performance using multiclass roc analysis. Also, think about other useful features in addition to the ones you mentioned (e.g. pos tag). Feature engineering is one of the most important factors in building good predictive models. Another thing to keep in mind is that the classes could be highly imbalanced which might influence your model's performance.
You could use and/or. I think Wikidata supports now, but don't quote me on that. dbPedia definitely supports SPARQL. If you're not interested in writing SPARQL queries by hand, you could use something like. In fact, the Quepy demo demonstrates doing natural language queries against Freebase and/or dbPedia. You could possibly also incorporate. If you want to roll something of your own, you might want to read some / all of the research papers published by the team from the project at MIT.
How to find the best configuration for an algorithm is an open research question in AI. The topic in general is known as hyper-parameter optimization' and there are a range of possible methods: One of the most popular is, but other possibilities include: argues that Spearmint performs the best, compared with SMAC and Hyperopt, but with significantly longer running times in some cases.
You can use Google and parse the response. Wolfram ALPHA is another candidate. You can parse the returned html and see "Result:" div.
If an AI is developed by humans, we surely can create another one! Develop another AI agent without all the possible bugs that can make it go rogue to tackle the rogue AI, but more technically advanced than the previous one. Hardwire it with the sole purpose of disabling any rogue AI agent that can harm humanity and have it self-destruct in case it is corrupted. If the AI is really strong, it can anticipate every move of human resistance, but it cannot fathom the mind of another AI agent.
Soon enough but that doesn't mean anything at all. In machine learning the word neuron represents a calculation whereas in brain the word neuron represent a specific type of cell which is a biochemical system.
Yes. If you leave A* running (i.e. do not impose a goal condition on a newly-encountered state), all states will be explored, just as they would be in breadth- or depth- first search.
While I have not determined if there are problems that cannot be solved with ReLU, I have found ample documentation in the literature that XOR is solvable with as few as 1 hidden node. The solution is simpler than I thought. The output layer needs connections, not just to the intermediate layer, but directly to the input layer as well. This allows the network to train XOR effectively. One final note, the XOR is extremely sensitive to the learning rate. Essentially, whatever learning rate is appropriate for the AND and OR functions, is approximately 1000x too large to train XOR effectively.
There are, according to Murray Shanahan's book The Technological Singularity, two primary forms of AI: - As the question references the former, it is very likely that human-based AI would indeed experience emotion and other human-like characteristics.
You're right about the basic arrangement of the inputs, but there are a number of differences: One succinct way of expressing the biggest difference is: a cellular neural network is looking for a function, while a Sobel filter is a function. Note that there are types of neural networks called Convolutional Neural Networks, which can use Sobel and other filters in their input layers, as described. Though, these are neither of the things you are asking about.:)
Not only wouldn't a strong AI which came into existence today have the rights a human has, or any rights (see these discussions of the implementation of regulation for weak AIs at: and ), but it seems unlikely the first one will. Observing that:
This depends a lot on what you want to achieve, but if you aim to generalise beyond the words encountered in your training data, you should consider using something like. In word2vec semantically similar words are represented by similar vectors and what's more, semantic differences translate into geometrical differences. To overuse a standard example: vec (Paris)-vec (France)+vec (Italy)=vec (Rome). These relationships allow the network to generalise to completely new content.
Suppose you have data: To calculate the entropy for quality in this example: Probability of each x in X: for which logarithms are: and therefore entropy for the set is: by the formula in the question. Remaining tasks are to iterate this process for each attribute to form the nodes of the tree.
You first need to express emotions, you can do that without the aid of AI, and then you need someone to perceive that expression and empathize with it. If no one is there to see it, or if I am psychopath, I would probably say it doesn't have emotions. and for that, it is irrelevant/subjective. If you can empathize with characters in movies who "act" emotions, then you get my point.
AI is already connected with cognitive psychology - there are dozens of AIs right this minute attempting to predict things like which Facebook posts you will like, and which ads you are most likely to click on. In other words, they are trying to predict how you think. For more detailed info on this AI/cognitive science connection, there is some suggested reading on, such as.
I think that the technique AlphaGo used to solve the computational intractability problem of the search space are not new, it uses the Monte Carlo Tree Search. The real innovation in AlphaGo was to figure out how to compute the evaluation function of a move, that was the really tricky part. For this they used combinations Deep and Reinforcement learning techniques.
The terminology of this exercise is not standard. What is referred to as "reproduction" in the exercise is usually referred to as "selection". The term "reproduction" does indeed seem conceptually closer to the notion of crossover or recombination (these two are the same thing), which is probably where your confusion has arisen. See the excellent (and freely-downloadable) for an introduction to the usual terminology for evolutionary algorithms.
I suggest you should use AI Regression Model for future predictions for an attendance of students. Because of this technique or model design for future predictions.
Because you have a small number of students , and a short time (one week), the number of absences is likely to be best modelled as a. Poisson Formula The average number of absences within a given time period is μ (use your data to estimate this). Then, the Poisson probability of x absences is: P (x; μ) = (e-μ) (μx) / x! where e is the logarithmic constant, approximately equal to 2.71828. You can either: Given your very small data set, the first approach is likely to be less accurate.
As far as I know I think this is the closest we've come: They simulated a 13 year old Ukrainian child in an online chat and convinced 33% of the judges that it was human. But even then the test was in favor of the bot. To my knowledge I don't think an AI has passed a turing test straight up.
There are many communication methods that could be used by an artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence can be integrated to various things including robots, phones, IoT and many others. Primary ways of human communications are either visual or auditory, therefore an natural way for it to communicate with a human is through voice, text, images and videos. The output does not have to be limited to screens but can be anything from refrigerators to speakers. Hope this helped.
There are programs that do this today, for some values of "curriculum" and "exam". It does not even require deep learning; a simpler information retrieval algorithm and some rules for composition work and For human graders, there is research on Both linked applications are rule-based rather than based in deep-learning. I'd guess that a deep-learning approach would be much less efficient (in computer resources) in producing comparable results.
The key feature of an expert system is that the knowledge base is structured to be traversed by the inference engine. Web sites like Stack Exchange don't really use an inference engine; they do full-text searches on minimally-structured data. A real inference engine would be able to answer novel queries by putting together answers to existing questions; Stack Exchange sites can't even tell if a question is duplicate without human confirmation.
No, I don't think there's any reason to say that - in general - CRUD apps "are" expert systems. A given CRUD app could incorporate an expert system, but by and large CRUD apps are considered among the "dumbest" of applications exactly because they don't feature much intelligence. you can just Create, Read, Update and Delete entities. From what I've seen, the closest you get to seeing anything like an expert system in a typical enterprise CRUD app is some validation / business rules logic built using something like
To quote the relevant: Feel free to look up that original paper, but to me the quote strongly suggests that the first record holder was a support vector machine. Edit As liori points out the quote is misleading: In the original paper Yann LeCun et al. actually tried a slew of methods and one version of ConvNet scored best . But according to the, after that initial paper, DeCoste and Scholkopf, MLJ 2002, reached an error of 0.56 with a SVM. So if that webpage is complete, the claim is still false.
A sufficiently clever AGI, if self-interested, would pre-empt or co-opt existing legal structures, to seize whatever juridical rights it desired, as the opportunity arose. Thus it would render my opinions on the subject entirely moot. Another way of putting this point: While current legal frameworks would not provide any rights to an artificial agent, current legal frameworks foreseeably will no longer be current, once an AI exists having attributes which imply the transformative change of those frameworks.
Reinforcement learning The problem that you describe, namely, choosing a good sequence of actions based on a reward/score received based on the whole sequence (and possibly significantly delayed), is pretty much the textbook definition of. As with quite a few other topics, deep neural networks currently seem to be a promising way for solving this type of problems. may be a beginner-friendly description of this approach.
Hopfield Networks are recurrent. However, they are not as general as more modern Recurrent Neural Networks such as Long Short-Term Memory Networks as they cannot process sequential input. I've never worked with a Hopfield Network but I've been told that they are mostly of historical interest today due to their limitations.
Training While "running" a neural network can be done with any activation functions, we usually want to train it - i.e., adjust its parameters so that the result would be closer to what we desire. This is commonly done by and variations of, which requires the existence of a gradient - i.e., requires activation function to be differentiable. The adjustment of each parameter is calculated from the gradient of the activation function (s) that this parameter affects, so if you cannot get a gradient, then this approach can't be used.
As already said, Activation function is almost differentiable in every neural net to facillitate Training as well as to calculate tendency towards a certain result when some parameter is changed. But I just wanted to point out that The Output function need not be differentiable in all cases. We can have non-sigmoid (hard-limiter threshold)output nodes but still train them with backpropagation and gradient descent.
Your intuition is good. Because "nearby" is only defined with "connected", there could only be 1 station between them. However, it says that the stations are "not_too_far" if at most one station is between them. What about if no stations are between them? If 2 stations are "connected" they should be "not_too_far" as well. So it should be: Where; denotes OR.
No, there is nothing novel about this system. The main hurdle he had to pass was problems that you will face when your system has a lot of integration points across various APIs provided by different vendors with messy and often outdated documentation. As far as attention is concerned we live in a world where so called celebrities get attention for anything that they do. Remember that media have only one goal - More and more eyeballs aka more money and nothing else.
The loaded term in your question is "generic cleverness." There's no such thing. What is "smart" is only smart relative to a criterion. Provide a complete criterion and we can talk rationally about "levels of sophistication." Until then, there is no measure against which "involuntarily acquired" capabilities can be regarded as more or less "smart."
If you look at the work of Howard Gardner and his theory of multiple intelligences, you will see that the term of "intelligence" respectively "generic cleverness" is much more diverse and not entirely clarified. Without a entire notion of it, a proof is forlorn.
Have you tried, what you are looking for is in of the book. Basically what you need to do is: And you can use your model to categorize the document. One other suggestion, instead of extracting vector sets you can use every word in the input to be evaluated in to some category using a training set of large corpus, which you are sure it contains all the words. And then you multiply probability of each word being on a category to decide where the document belongs.
For what it's worth, says that Hinton: So, a deep belief network is definitely a stacked RBM. I have never heard of different stacked RBMs, but it is easy to imagine something like convolutional stacked RBMs, where some RBMs are used as filters that slide over the input data or something. Whether that would still be called a deep belief network, is probably up to the guy who publishes it first.
Yes, it is possible to combine probabilistic / bayesian reasoning and a traditional "knowledgebase". And some work along those lines has been done. See, for example, ("Probabilistic Prolog") which combines logic programming and probabilistic elements. See: Another project to look at is ("Probabilistic OWL") which adds Bayesian reasoning to the Semantic Web stack. Of course neither of these deals specifically with QA systems, but both represent some work on at least the foundational aspect of combining traditional logic and/or ontologies, with probabilistic approaches. Building a QA system on top of that is an exercise for the reader.
Finding a solution in NEAT algorithm is based on evolution strategy. It means that you have Neural Networks which are yours individuals, so mutations and crossing occurs in loop after phase of "fitnessing" (calculation fitness for every individual and removing bad ones). Randomly: just draw. You can read more about evolutionary algorithms. If it could somehow help, I include to my repository with the implementation of NEAT.
Our ability to self-examine comes definitively from the memory of our experiences; indeed, for this reason it can't be objective. In the same way AI could be able to determine the heuristically optimal strategy to solve a problem if and only if it has some sort of memory of previous tasks e.g. speech recognition. Science is constantly working to improve our understanding of things. Trying to mimic the human brain seems to be a difficult problem at the moment; though we are able to replicate almost fully simpler organisms as, a roundworm.
We simply don't know until the consequences of the inflection point determine a remarkable difference between the before and after. In general terms every considerable reaction must be attributed to a particular cause. One of the biggest limit that bounds artificial intelligence, and apparently makes it stagnating, is the greed of computational power involved in this field; and since the hardware technology improve much slower than the software does, AI remains confined in labs and data centers.
There are two types of mutations in the NEAT model, each of them appears randomly during one epoch on different individuals; the number of structures affected by mutations may vary depending upon the nature of the problem. During a single epoch/generation every mutation is tracked and if the same mutation appears it can't have the same global innovation number. Same mutation, same innovation number. In that way, during the mating phase, there is no decisional problem which leads to prefer one structure to the other.
You are correct, they should also be the immediate ones: No, there is also a bit of misunderstanding of bidirectional search: In bidirectional search you run 2 simultaneous searches, one forward from the initial state, and another one backwards from the goal(hoping they meet in the middle and save you steps), if actions are reversible (going from node to node), the successor nodes become predecessors in one search and vice versa, and your goal becomes your initial state, in your case: Reference/source, by S. Russell and P. Norvig.
In general, Google autocompletes (and produces search results) based on wide variety of factors, including (but not limited to) your location, your search history, your other Google accounts, your site visit history, your language settings, etc. For the specific question, I see a few ways in which Google might have access to the relevant information: I don't know specifically whether or not Google uses Drive or Gmail contents in the way described, but it would certainly make sense given that it is well known that they do use this information to target advertising.
This is basically the problem of. It is. If we knew how to solve it, Siri and Cortana wouldn't be as limited as they are.
I suggest you look at all the ways we have tried to stop people from abusing OTHER PEOPLE. There is no ethical grey area here - everyone is clear that this is wrong. And yet people are murdered, raped, and assaulted in their millions every day. When we solve this problem with regard to human victims, the resulting solution will most likely work just fine for AIs as well.
You could also build a database of sarcastic sentences, especially from, for example historic plays. And then train your software to recognize patterns of those sentences. E.g. grammatical constructions/order, length (or circomstances building up to the sarcasm). And use that database as starting point, with feedback to learn, or you could use the above method to improve your effective output. Another approach would be to use a similar but reverse approach; study those databases and build an equivalent output based on the coherence, and then extrapolate the output-generation procedure. (In combination with other methods)
Theoretically, there shouldn't be a problem copying either of the artificial brains in any state. Difficulty in measuring a state doesn't seem to really be a problem until you get down to the quantum level, where the means of measurement affect the state. The configuration of the artificial brains, including pathway structures and states, should be reducible to a single string, which could then be used to reconfigure the artificial brain the information is being copied to. Definitely look into the concept of a and.
One simple approach to consider would be storing each statement as a template made in advance. The system will pick a random statement and will fill the variable fields with some statistically generated data between and; here you have your question. Example: Will there be than goals scored in the match? Example: Will score a goal during the match?
(using X for epsilon because keyboard) This is just a hypothesis, but if you have a maximising agent and a minimising agent, then the optimal outcome for A (maximising) is to sweep the board , while the optimal outcome for B (minimising) is because B is minimising A's score, not their own. A's optimal outcome is then complicated by the factor for sub-optimality, which we then imagine approaches zero. There seem to be a bunch of assumptions that are not articulated, though, if this hypothesis is true.
It's highly probable they would slow down with current technology, as they can detect temporary signs and are designed to use slow speed in complex cases. If it was a true temporary sign (e.g. road repair), how can it make the distinction? It probably would be worse to ignore a slow down sign than slow down at a fake one. IMHO, the problem there is with the joke in the first place, as some humans might slow down too.
I'll try to answer your questions using Geoffrey Hinton's ideas in dropout paper and his Coursera class. What purpose does the "dropout" method serve? So, dropout is a regularization technique that addresses the problem of overfitting. How does it improve the overall performance? If by "performance" you mean "generalization", then it may improve generalization by avoiding over-fitting, as I said.
As I see it, it all comes down to game theory, which can be said to form the foundation of successful decision making, and is particularly useful in a context, such as computing, where all parameters can be defined. (Where it runs into trouble is with the aggregate complexity of the parameters per the, although Machine Learning has recently been validated as a method of managing intractability specifically in the context of games.) You might want to check out and.
Actually the implementation was correct, The source of the problem that causes a big error and really slow learning was the architecture of the neural network it self, the ANN has 7 hidden layers which causes the vanishing gradient problem. When I have decreased the ANN layers to 3 the cost of error was widely reduced besides of that the learning process was faster. Another common solution is to use RELU or ELU or SELU in the hidden layers of the neural network instead of the sigmoid function
One example might be self-play in games. Since neural networks and deep learning depend on massive amounts of data, one way to generate data is to have two virtual machines play each other and record the experience. An example discussion can be found at which uses reinforcement learning. I believe also uses this technique of self-play, and uses two independent neural networks, one reducing the search space and the other deciding on the best move in the remaining space, that in a sense cooperate to decide on the next move.
Since you are a highschool student I will try to express it easier. It is a problem for a machine to make a decision if you haven't given that information to it before. You should think of every cases while programming. But sometimes there can be so many cases, here Data Mining, Neural Networks, Fuzzy Logic etc are used withing AI. It saves your time and system is learning itself with enough examples given at the beginning and deciding itself. you can find an article about Bayesian learning. Example on p.33 is what you need I guess.
The squared form is sometimes called the. One of its very helpful properties is that it has an easily defined derivative, which can be used in mathematical analysis and translated fairly easily into code. Intuitively it is thought that it is advantageous to exaggerate the differences according to the value of the error, which squaring does. You might also use the powers 3 or 4, but the derivative is more complex. A number of different norms may be used, according to the particular circumstances of the problem at hand.
A closed expression (or closed formula) refers to a formula that has no free variables. This is also called sentence. In a logic system, you have a set of axioms, which are sentences, and rules which state how to derive a sentence from this. If a sentence can be derived from the axioms, this means that the axioms this sentence. If a sentence is not derivable, it is not entailed by the axioms.
NEAT has a constant number of organisms in its population, which prevents overpopulation from happening. The process of mating includes the following steps. Speciation prevents fast extinction.
It simply derives itself from the maximum likelihood estimation. where in we maximise the log likelihood function., for detailed insight see this lecture:.
You need some sort of interpretation abstraction before your mathematical reasoning. While the text might read "123", you need to parse this into a literal of type Natural Number or Integer. Similarly, "x" could be a member variable. Then your deduction becomes, is literal 123 a Natural Number? Yes. As for the second statement, you should hopefully be able to reason to definitely false. Your internal representation of a sum should not be order dependent since addition is commutative. Then, the check for equality must handle this unordered property.
The triangles pointing up are Max' nodes. We assume it starts. Then follows a random choice of moves at the circles, for instance, with a die. The triangles pointing down are from Min. This variant is called Expectiminimax, see. At that circles you have to multiply the possibilities on the edges below that nodes to your current value and sum all products up. The circles in your picture mean that Min dices.
It wouldn't be considered alive if it doesn't have vital functions, such as nutrition, relation with the environment, and reproduction. While the first is easy (use a battery) and the second is the one we are developing right now (basically, the intelligence part of an AI) giving programming skills to an AI, aka the ability to reproduce, isn't widely considered a good idea, as many science fiction writers can tell you.
I have been reading and reading, and found answers to almost all my questions. I am sticking to Earley algorithm, given that it offers a dynamic programming approach (CKY does the same). Both algorithms are chart parsing algorithms. Earley is a context-free, top-down parsing algorithm, which makes it a goal-driven algorithm. From start symbol down. Furthermore, it is more efficient than the CKY algorithm. are the slides that provide more info.
You can try to figure out what exactly does an action do using such script: 0 and 1 seems useless, as nothing happens to the racket. 2 & 4 makes the racket go up, and 3 & 5 makes the racket go down. The interesting part is, when I run the script above for the same (from 2 to 5) two times, I have different results. Sometimes the racket reaches the top (bottom) border, and sometimes it doesn't. I think there might be some randomness on the speed of the racket, so it might be hard to measure which type of UP is faster.
I think you mean the leave nodes only which are changed. The other nodes in the tree are calculated during calculating the best move with this tree. The values at the leaves are called utility values in Russel and Norvig's " ". Some times it is called heuristic value; see.
I think it's missing still the aspects what makes a human brain; having a lot of different networks working with each other. Just like meditation improves cognitive abilities by having the brain work more synergistically, we could apply that to machines too. For example google is learning a computer to dream, just like we do, to reinforce what we already learned. And here is pathnet, a network of neural network. Creating all these mechanics and putting them all together, with enough power and we will get pretty close!
You should try. You feed in letter by letter and have a binary output of linebreak - no linebreak. If you have enough data it might actually work.
is widely used to demonstrate AI in schools and universities . With LEGO as basis, you are very flexible. You can build what you want very easily. The AI programs can be written in different languages from very easy graphical once to Lisp and C++. The newest version has an SD Card drive, USB interface and a powerful ARM processor. You can use four motors and four sensors directly. There exists touch, sound, sonar, gyro, infrared and color sensors. There is also a big community which provides you with a lot of ideas, hardware and programs .
Artificial intelligence proponents today are focused on the problem of computability - the ability to solve complex problems fast. It is my belief that any amount of success in this direction will not lead to human (general) intelligence although it certainly will outperform humans in certain domains. Instead, efforts should be toward a study of what neurological events cause sensation (the experience of qualia). Of course, this is the hard problem of philosophy but I believe it is the unique key to general intelligence and its capabilities. Reverse engineering and also testable theories should be advanced toward this end.
It is possible The help in building efficient NLP algorithms, which can identify semantics and their relations across long pieces of text. With very minor tuning, they can be made generative too. So, which I highly recommend, which also talks about how an RNN was trained on Shakespere's texts and wrote one itself.
The problem with CV objectives isn't just that they can be too vague; they can also be too specific. Objectives tend to either be so broad as to be useless, or so specific that you're shoehorning yourself out of the job. It's for these reasons that objectives are usually frowned upon. There may be an odd edge case though where they actually add value.
The problem I have with "Objective" is it talks about what you want. Well, as a hiring manager, given that you're a complete stranger, I don't care what you want - I want what I want! The flip side is that it at least gives me some insight into whether or not you'd be a good match for the position I have to offer.
Cross training is critical. You can get buy-in from your boss by explaining how he currently has a single point of failure in the systems you support.
Most businesses have an off season, so take your vacation then. Ask to be contacted by e-mail, and only your boss can call you for actual emergencies (or a single person who has the capacity to judge if it truly is an emergency (server meltdown) or, as would very often happen, not one (lost files, lost e-mails, etc). Take your e-mails every other day, announce that's how you will work.
NO. The idea of moving around a lot to get some diverse experience may sound like a good idea, but I've personally seen at least one candidate get rejected for the explicit reason that he hadn't stayed at one job for more than a year. Ideally, try to find a good job that'll give you a good breadth of technical experience. If the job turns out to be a stinker, then by all means move on. Just don't think you'll ever be doing yourself a favor by frequently moving from job to job.
Remember that in a work-at-home situation, the onus is on you to demonstrate value. One technique that some of my co-workers use is to send an email at the beginning of the day, describing their plan for the day, and at the end of the day, outlining what they accomplished. Err on the side of overcommunicating when you're working at home. Give them no reason at all to be suspicious.
You should take care of both variants; the LinkedIn profile matters for many recruiters. I think the on-line profiles will be more powerful in the future than the actual CVs are. Also having a website to show off your awesome work is a very big plus as more and more new companies are interested in this kind of way to evaluate candidates. Some of them will recruit this way only:)
The big problem I see is that your career goal doesn't match with what the prospective employer wants - especially if you want to be CEO of your own company within 5 years (say). There's a lot of things unsaid when recruiting. The employer wants someone to "just do the job". What you want is career progression, training and a paycheck at the end of each month.
It's tough, but there are several things to consider. You'll probably need to work up to the point where you can do this comfortably, but most people find that they've either made insufficient plans for their absence, or they don't trust people around them, or a combination of both.
They both have their strengths, and both are necessary. Your LinkedIn Profile can be a general overview of your career, while your resume can be tailored to specific experience relevant to a position. Your LinkedIn Profile also shows off recommendations as well as other interests that you may have, while a resume wouldn't.
I think it's becoming much more prevalent that recruiters are starting to rely on online profiles - they're starting to realize that the second you send over a Word document to them, it starts to get stale and 6 months to a year down the road, it's good for historical reference, but might not be relevant to current postings.
I don't think there's any way around it. Some jobs will give a salary range in the description, and some won't. But virtually all of them will be offended by you wanting to talk salary before they've even decided on whether to hire you. It's inefficient, but it's just the way it is.
Most objectives are just HR babble-speak 'dynamic fast-paced exciting blah blah blah'. On the other hand, if I am looking for a C++/Boost developer, and I see a resume that says "Objective: A position as a C++/Boost developer" that's very interesting to me. So if you have a specific type of job in mind and really aren't interested in much else, then put your specific objectives on the resume. If you don't have real specific ideas about what kind of job you want next, just leave off the objective.
Make it painfully clear to any hiring manager that the 40K you make is in a very low cost-of-living area. To really drive the point home possibly mention the rent you pay. Or better yet, don't mention you're current salary at all; it shouldn't be relevant. The hiring manager should be asking you what target salary you're looking for, and that should be that. Regardless though, if they're working in Silicon Valley, then they should certainly know that salaries are going to be higher than they are in the Midwest.
The promotion is a new role with new terms and conditions. You need to discuss with your new boss whether it's practicable for you to be out of the office every other Friday. You can't assume that your current arrangement will carry over. If you don't take the promotion you should be able to keep the current arrangement - your contract hasn't changed just because your boss has, and you have it in writing. Well assuming that your company treats e-mails as equivalent to letters and someone else (preferably in HR) was copied into the e-mail.
How far out are you going in your search? You might try increasing your range to up to 50 miles (or further, depending on how far you're currently looking). Depending on how the traffic and commuting situation is in your area you can draw people from further away. At my workplace we've got employees coming in from up to two hours away (120 miles).
I actually picked up some absolutely amazing contract work from a cold-call. The individual came across my Stack Overflow profile, saw I had the skills necessary, and the rest is history. And of course there's plenty of spammers out there. If the email seems legit, then by all means reply.
I've used "resident expert" for this very purpose, along with some responsibility language along the lines of "consulted with colleagues on an as-needed basis." To make this really sing, include an accomplishment line that points to results that came from the company having you in this role, e.g. "Avoided hundreds of bugs in the design phase by providing guidance to colleagues who were working on ".
The first thing that came to my mind was Technical Consultant. Adding Guru to a resume in my opinion would make me toss out a resume pretty quick. Makes me think the person may be full of himself and a "i know everything" kind of person
Why not just use Technical Lead? If it's not a real promotion, just put it in quotes. Specify that you've acted as the technical resource for the team in your job duties description section.
Part of the answer depends on who the audience of question-askers is: And by all means, fortify your reputation as the "go-to guy" by pointing to a significant StackOverflow rep (but explain what SO is).
From your description I would say this person is a Leader or Expert in your area. You're a Problem Solver and a Consultant. You'll have to pick a term that meshes well with your area of expertise and your manner of selling yourself. Pick something that sounds authoritative, but not self-inflated. Guru sounds like you're trying too hard, as do many of the "fun" titles like "Ninja" I've been hearing fly around. I also immediately suspect Neckbeardism when I hear Guru.
Don't dismiss it out of hand - dig in to each one. If you just ask the question, "What about my profile made you think we were a good fit?" the spammers won't have have the time or energy to respond and you can start filtering right there.
There's no substitute for asking the right questions of any potential employer, regardless of who initiates contact. I don't think it's a matter of trust - it's a matter of feeling them out and making sure it's a good fit, regardless. I don't think there's anything inherently untrustworthy about it. Maybe your skills are in high demand. Maybe they are calling lots of people - the fit is what should matter.
I know that this may not be immediately useful to you in your current search, but strongly maintaining a "bench" of people you know whom you may want to hire in the future and informally learning whatever relevant you can about them ahead of time. Then, when you have an opening, you can go right to the people on your bench who you think are particularly relevant. That you already have a relationship with them will make them much more likely to seriously consider applying.
Proceed, but with caution. Be discreet for a few months, since it may come to naught. But if your friend sees a future with this person after 3-6 months, she should make a disclosure to her HR department. It's a formality, but an important one, since both people might be asked have to waive certain rights to sue.
A good balance is one that involves you Leaving Work Problems at Work and Personal Problems at Home as much as possible per the agreed upon terms of employment. I am single handedly responsible for 24/7 x 365 uptime on multiple web applications where I work so clearly this is not possible all the time, but the general rule of thumb for me is that if: then it is something you should do from home. Otherwise put your laptop away and go out to dinner with friends!
Being that they are unpaid I would guess no. Your employer is a vendor of a service and the people in question are voluntary consumers who engage at their leisure with nothing at stake but their own time. It doesn't seem like a conflict of interest in a business sense.
As long as you don't let it affect your work then no, it's not unprofessional. Obviously it could be seen as being unprofessional, but as long as everyone - including your employer - is happy then you should be OK. In fact, it could be argued that forming a personal relationship with these users is part of your job as community liaison. You are part of the conduit between the regular users and moderators and the company. Your job would be much harder if you didn't get on with them at some level.
Just consider the following issue: No matter how badly we try to keep professional and personal relationships separate we are not able to do that. We are all only human. So is it unprofessional? No. Will it affect how you perform your duties with respect to the site where user is present? Definitely. So my suggestion is to avoid interactions where your professional life bleeds into your personal one.
Make the case that you are much more productive at work if you limit your overtime. Having a life outside of work takes your mind off of the problems you are trying to solve during your work time, and allows you to have a fresh perspective the next day. If you are a high performer during the hours you are at work, and you meet your milestones, there's not much your team can say about your preference not to work extra hours.
Write up a very respectful letter of resignation, and give it to your boss only after you tell him or her in person that you're leaving. Make it clear in both the letter and your sit-down that you've enjoyed your time there, but are just moving on to another opportunity that's a better fit for you. And, needless to say, give at least 2 weeks notice. If your boss is any kind of decent person, he or she will understand.
Just like your resume, your attire should follow the company's culture. But I've always played it safe. And it's worked so far:) If you are interviewing for big companies that are fairly known as formal (IBM, Microsoft, etc.), wear a suit. Everyone else (small or laid-back companies)? Just lose the tie and the suit jacket. Keep the shoes, the pants and the shirt. You still look very professional, just a little less formal than suit.
No it's not ok. You need to have a track record of meeting that person's expectations before you ask (and they give you) a reference worth having. Imagine how embarrassed you would be if they said, "Well, Lance really didn't work for me for that long, so I don't know how strongly I can recommend him."
The difference between constructive criticism and not is often clear. You need to separate what's constructive in their criticism (specific behaviors that can be avoided) and what is not (name-calling, ad hominem attacks, irrelevant details, etc.) If they were vague in their criticism, you can follow up later and ask for specifics in how to improve yourself. If they said some things that were uncalled for, you can mention that "this was not necessary and irrelevant to improving the situation"
.seems a bit emotionally charged, and I wouldn't consider it valuable feedback. If you have doubts about your conduct, you should ask someone else that was present for feedback, and it wouldn't hurt to gather similar feedback for past events. And never bother responding. I understand that the moment was awkward and hurtful, but you'll need to toughen up a bit and deal with it: Smile, thank them for their feedback, ensure them you'll take it under consideration and walk away. If you manage to keep smiling while you do all that, it'll confuse them even more;)
Use your title as anyone doing a reference check may throw you out if it doesn't match what the reference check says. If you feel the title is too far off, add the realistic title of what you did in parentheses after the official title. Then explain why you did that in the cover letter. What you want to do is make sure the description of the job includes the information about what design tasks you performed.
I always try to customize my resume for the position I am looking for. The person looking to fill the job I want does not care about the skills I have that are not important to it. Always try to emphasize what is important to the position you are applying for. List any skills you used in your former position (s) that is being sought in the new position. You can use the title that you have. Most employers realize that titles are just that. They look at the skill sets that were important to the position.
There is an unfortunate reality of doing these kinds of reviews: Everything hidden becomes known even if the feedback could only be seen by an advisor or administration president. If a person performing the review mentions some of your constructive criticisms to a person, there are ways of determining who left it, so be careful of being too insightful if you have to continue working with these people. If you want to leave criticism leave them as generic as possible.
It depends on what you want to get out of your career. If you want to have a lot of experience in different areas of expertise, then you could move around every few years. The reason being you want to grow and you want to enhance your skills. However, if you feel you are growing in your career (and getting promoted) and you are working for your dream company (Microsoft/Apple for example), you could stay there for 20 years if you wanted.
This is a very tough one. I've been in peer review processes that are similar — that specifically ask for "something they could do better". Here's how I approach it: I actually like thinking about it the way the question was phrased on our surveys: " Describe how [person] can be more effective in their role." This helps me frame all feedback in a positive light, not negative.
This problem should never have arisen, so I suspect it will not get solve without drastic action. You need to create a crisis. If you do this you will force them to face up to the problem. Also realise that you are not indispensable. As Charles de Gaulle said, "The graveyards are full of indispensable men."
I pick it depending on who I'm speaking to as follows: In the last job hunt, I figured out quickly that my strategy had to be minimum time-wasting. At least in the tech industry, there is more demand than there are jobs, so any resume seems to get a flood of calls - many of which may be hardly better than spam. I couldn't allow the non-productive conversations to screen the productive opportunities. so I had to be blunt when I had reason to believe that the particular communication channel was unlikely to result in useful opportunities.
Keep your job as long as you're learning, growing and improving every year. If you start to stagnate, that's a signal that it's time to move on. If you're being interviewed, be prepared to answer questions on both ends of the spectrum:
How would a teacher do it? After all, if you can't connect the dots between the problem and a better solution, then they aren't going to learn anything from the process. So, you have to help them solve the problem themselves.
Openly, honestly, and in a culture that emphasises learning from mistakes instead of punishing failure. Without that, it's very very hard.
Stay away. Don't get involved in that slippery slope. My recommendation is to walk away from those types of conversations or steer it back to a work-related matter. Another alternative if in a casual setting (like a lunch break) is to change the subject to something positive that everyone will enjoy discussing. At the end of the day it is completely unprofessional, and leads to nothing positive or productive.
You are definitely setting the example by not participating. After that, it just depends on how assertive you want to be. For example, I had a friend who used to say things like, Feel free to paraphrase or borrow outright. The other discipline I find useful is to reflect on the.
Absolutely yes. And as a hiring manager, I would be very impressed by this. It shows initiative and self-confidence. Most people just list their old bosses or co-workers. This means you really connected with clients and helped meet their needs, and impressed them enough that they remembered you among the armies of drones and clock-watchers they likely had to deal with.
Definitely ok. Even better, and what seems to be more and more common these days, would be to ask for a recommendation on a LinkedIn profile, which is visible to all future employers as well. It's also not a bad idea to ask for such recommendations before you're leaving a job, especially if you've done outstanding work on a particular, critical project, and may or may not have the opportunity to work for that client again in the future.
No I have read a lot of resumes, and never saw a 'career objective' that made me want to call a candidate. In short, it won't help, and may hurt. It's your job to find opportunities that match your goals.
Show them all their positives, then explain them the negatives/criticize their work. Then discuss openly and frankly on how to improve those. Show that you're open for discussing issues and never be patronizing (I find that this is the most hurtful). This can apply for other situations, such as giving feedback on negative behaviour.
Some of the best leadership experts state that leadership is not about power, it's about. I can't answer this directly because I feel that the premise is wrong. I have no reason to believe their behavior should be unwanted. Maybe they are just trying to help, albeit inappropriately? Maybe the solution is wrong? Here are some tips:
Just ask. You're not obligated to tell them why you need another copy of the contract you signed, and even if an HR person is "suspicious" of why you are asking, you do have an answer: you want to fact-check something you signed your name to -- that's a good thing, both for you and for them (you want to make sure you're in compliance ). As for confidentiality, assume everything having to do with employment is confidential. Even if it isn't, just assume it is unless and until HR explicitly tells you otherwise.
Concentrate on the work not the person. That said, it is very hard to get right. What you want is the person to change their behaviour in some way so concentrate on that, explaining why the existing behaviour is a problem and what can be done to improve that. This should (hopefully) create some emotional distance between the person and the problem so that they can see that it's not personal and help them concentrate on the solution.
Frame it in a way that would benefit the company. If your current work environment is loud, annoying, with too many distractions, etc, then consider telling your boss (truthfully) that you could work more productively from home one or two days per week. You might also mention that your lack of commute on those days would also give you some extra time to work.
Even once the technical stuff is no longer the challenge, people will always remain a challenge. Learning to communicate technical concepts to non technical people is a rewarding endeavor. That can mean management, pre sales engineering, or a whole host of stuff. Ultimately, computers are easy because they will always do what you tell them. People are not - so if you can learn to interface between the two, you'll never get bored (frustrated, maybe. Psychotic, possibly, but bored, never. ) Being able to bridge the two is a career.
Start with, "hey, boss. Tomorrow, I need to get X, Y, And Z done. If I'm here, the distractions of the office will probably limit me to X and Y, but if you let me work from home, I bet I could get Z done too." Repeat often enough to gain your boss's trust, then see about making it a regular thing. Have verifiable, set targets, identify an obstacle in the workplace, and have a record of meeting the targets at home, and you'll be on your way to working in your pajamas.
Here's a pretty good test for questions of the format: "Is it ethical/professional to _?" The answer is almost always the same as this question: "Would you feel uncomfortable telling your boss about _?"
Since you have worked in the field extensively, I believe putting your GPA is not needed at all: after all, you have already proven your skills - despite not having been the best student. Most employers do know that good grades do not translate to actual experience (and in fact can mean the opposite, sometimes).
In general, this is all going to depend on who's at the meeting and how easily they might be offended. I would say a better solution would be to talk to the meeting organizers. Ask them to consider using an agenda noting that At the same time, you can ask them to organize the meetings so that you do your part and let others do theirs. If you have an agenda that clearly states nothing of relevance to you, it doesn't seem rude to step out at that point.
Rather than a large number of scatter shot applications, I'd rather see you focus deeply on a small number and personalize each one, explaining why you'd like to work for their company and why you're a good match for their needs. A letter that shows that you took the time to research the company puts you heads and shoulders above someone who sends a generic cover letter. Think quality not quantity.
Less and less important as your career experience grows. And while you're new with a short resume, if you weren't a superstar student, talk about what else you did during school - did you work part time, grade papers, tutor, play sports, etc.
**Be upfront and honest and ask: ** Then re-acknowledge the items that have been assigned to you during the meeting before leaving.. Of course this is under the assumption that you KNOW you are not needed, and everyone else will agree. (IE your manager didn't ask you sit in and take notes)
Address this directly, be respectful but firm. let him know he simply cannot do this. Be sure he understands that you are the middle man between him and Sr. Management. Again be respectful but firm. Then get out of his way so he can do his job, Let him know you are there to get him whatever he need to do his job. Take an interest in his work, and acknowledge his accomplishments.
Here's also a list of to having meetings that can often accomplish the purpose of meetings without having to use up as much organizational time and people.
Yes, here's why: If HR is contacted, then the HR response is an official response of the company, not some individual's honest opinion. So it must be nothing but factual things about the employee (this is why the company is libel to be sued by the employee). Also I'd to add that: Anyone who gives an HR reference is off his rocker! What does HR know about him/her? If someone told me to contact his former firm's HR as opposed to a boss or coworker that would be a HUGE red flag to not hire that individual.
I would avoid asking general question of your overall performance outside a formal review, it will just make you sound insecure. Rather ask for feedback on specific tasks you performed.. This way is doesn't look like you are fishing for compliments, but that you are just insuring that everything is up to his standard for his benefit
The best thing I know to make a meeting better is to create, publish, and stick to an agenda. A clearly written agenda, which includes the goal or goals of the meeting, makes sure the person running the meeting has invested the time needed to prepare fort he meeting. It also lets everybody know what is supposed to take place. It can even simplify the taking of notes, because you are mostly recording action items and decisions.
I've never heard of recruiters going to this length, but there's always - it takes anonymously forwarded recruiter spam emails (or other undesirables), and puts them on the shame list.
This is one of the most common mistakes I see job-seekers make. You should absolutely not give blind references. I've been on both sides of that call (the reference and the reference checker) and it is usually ugly and not helping the candidate one bit. You should call all your references each time you give them as a contact for a potential employer for a number of reasons:
Trying to think outside the box here, because I have the same problem: Tons of ideas not enough hours in the week to see them out. Have you considered taking a "Working vacation" instead of trying to cram it into a weekend? Take some days off of work and commit yourself to making significant progress during those days off. The fact that you are using up your valuable vacation time might be enough to convince you to get your butt to work on those ideas.
It really depends on if an opportunity presents itself. I have a name that is commonly "nicked" (Jacob - Jake). Many interviewers will ask my if I prefer one or the other, at which point I can make my preference known. If an opportunity such as that does not present itself, I would communicate it to HR after accepting an offer and then to my new boss on my first day (with reinforcement as I'm being introduced around if necessary.)
Many companies have a "preferred vendor" list. If yours does, then getting them removed from that list means that they can't "sell" your company candidates.
I've held Microsoft certifications for years. The only companies that seem to care about them are Microsoft Partners, and that is because the Partner program requires Partners to have a certain number of, so a "silver" partner requires 2 certified employees, but a "gold" partner will usually require 4 employees with specific certifications.
There are a few general things that might help: Otherwise, just be prepared to be observant and flexible as you get a feel for your workplace and how you will fit into it.
The most important rule: the freelancer should acknowledge that he is on the other side of the rules now. He is going to make some things he doesn't like, he is going to attend some meetings he will find to be very boring. Then there are lots of advantages and disadvantages for the transition that he will discover later.
I suspect that this will probably be one that will vary a bit from country to country. I can only speak from my experiences in Ireland: Exceptions to the first rule might include situations where you're a one-person team and you don't want to leave your current employer in the lurch. However, these truly are exceptions, and not the rule. In general, giving your employer an opportunity to replace you is what a notice period is for.
Out there in India, most important clients sit on the other side of the earth - namely US. So this is extreme example of Cross continent, worse timezone differences, critical project communication reporting and relationship management. Here are a few things most IT companies here in India follows.
You have a couple of opportunities. Some put their nickname on their resume, others (Michael to Mike) mention it in the interview. You can also wait until you put together their email signature. The confusing ones are those that can make it hard to find the employee in the email system. You may want to let your company know before IT has a chance to set up the email system.
In situations like the one you described transparency is very important. Your employees must know what is happening before they begin to create false scenarios. If they create false scenarios they will freak out and leave eventually creating a hard-to-fill gap. So be fair, don't lie, be transparent. Ensure you are telling them the bad parts and the good parts. Good employees will understand the situation and will stick with you if they trust you.
I think the solution here is knowing when and how to say No to clients. You must have a long term vision for the product and adapt client needs to that vision. Every client need must be somehow converted to a compatible product change. Radical client-specific changes will break your product. So there is no 100% percent working solution. It's just you need to grow your skill to adapt your product in order to fulfill the long-term goals, while keeping the customers happy by working on short term goals.
My company uses. It does a decent job and is easy to collaborate with so you can have people confirm what they said and correct the notes as needed after the meeting.
Lay offs are a business decision. The best choice is to lay off those people whose loss will have the least impact on the bottom line. Any other decision is poor business and short changes those employees left trying to keep the business going forward.
To the interviewer the fact that you don't provide references from the last job could be a Big Red Flag. The thought process when someone refuses to give references from their last position means that there was a conflict between this employee and the rest of the team that noone will give him or her the reference. This also means that this potential employee will have the same conflict in the new job so it might be better to simply pass on this candidate.
Unless you burned your bridges with a flamethrower, there is usually SOMEONE at an old job who would say something nice about you. It will be a bit of a red flag if the person you offer up is only vaguely related to your job function and/or isn't a supervisor, but a weak reference is usually better than none at all.
is what I would have said for your specific case; normally, when interviewing asking such a question is not so much to hear a detailed plan of your future, but to ascertain that you are thinking in and interested in developmening. More generally, I would use a few guiding principles: In short, what you're doing here is selectively presenting goals which are well planned goals - i.e. those laid out carefully against guidelines such as. Chances are, if your goals follow such principles, you will not come across as over ambitious.
I've been given an exam in lieu of a phone screen, and I've also been given a short-answer quiz. A short-answer quiz (about 5-7 questions) is a good idea. It's basically a phone screen but in paper form, and it might save you some time. You can give it to weed out people who don't know anything, or like to make stuff up.
I prefer a hands on technical assessment. It is more important to see how the problem was solved than that the problem is solved. I would rather have a "wrong" answer that was achieved through a good method than a "Correct" answer that came from memory.
Bruce Webster coined the phrase " " to describe situations like this. Eliminating the "information sink" requires political and managerial help from above the point where truth stops flowing uphill.
Training would be the best option, but failing that, is it possible to set up some sort of "Tech tip of the week" email, where once a week you email out a well-written tip/tutorial for some of the specific systems you are using? You'd have to make sure the tips are relevant, positive, and emphasize the benefits of following them. I know here they did that when they migrated to Outlook, way back whenever that was, and even I learnt some neat tricks I'd never heard of before.
From, "The Fast Forward MBA in Project Management," it provides a great list of essential qualities of being a team player:
The purpose of the original was to improve quality of production at Motorola but has morphed into various incarnations beyond its original purpose. Will it change the way you do you job? No You will be doing a lot more reporting learning about "Belts". But in the end it will matter very little as long as what you report for 6 sigma won't produce numbers that will be far below the average that the consultants hired to introduce this into your company calculate.
Just from a law perspective, you should always get a contract any time there is money being provided in exchange for a service, no matter what it is. Don't end up on Judge Judy! Contracts are the easiest way to resolve any issue in an instant.
Are you doing anything that is cool or challenging once people know about it? Consider making a presentation about that interesting method or project at a local usersgroup meeting and then casually mention that you have an opening.
Since that was only a sample project, I don't think you really needed a contract. The fact that they paid you was a nice gesture. However, for the real job you do need a contract. Don't even start without it.
The phrase you are looking for is forms of address, and there is a of information on the subject. The sheer amount of information points to the fact that the correct form varies from honorific to honorific, country to country and setting to setting. The best I can do is point you at some references:
Three Primary Places. Also other places that officially identifies you such formal letterhead\ stationary that you have or a Name plaque on your desk.
I disagree entirely with the idea. When I do creative work, that's inherently messy and a requirement to keep everything spit-polished is not only ridiculous, it is counterproductive. I file visually, I can always find something in the stack on my desk but if it goes into a file folder it is lost forever. It is wasteful of time to be forever cleaning when I could be working. Not everyone works well in neat conditions. I find them distracting and uncomfortable and I can't find what I need.
Other than confirming that a candidate isn't outright lying on their resume, I agree that references don't have a ton of informational value. I say this mainly because unless the candidate is brain dead they aren't going to give you a person's name unless that person will give them a glowing review. To me, as a hiring manager, the main value of references is: Can this person come up with three people (other than Mom) who will say nice things about them and their work?
Your coworkers are fools. Developers rarely have to print anything out, as you mention. My desk happens to be cluttered, but it's with Dr. Pepper 10 cans and Dilbert calendar cartoons, mostly. In other words, most developers have little, if any work-related content scattering their desks. That you choose to live a bit more cleanly and more organized than the rest of us, and also keep it free of crap is hardly cause for embarrassment.
Meetings is one of the necessary evils of working in a team. Our status meetings usually lasts for 60mins, although my status reports only lasts for about 10mins. For the remainder of the meeting, I usually try to contribute and take notes that may affect my work. From what you have said, I think that the following may work for you.
Keeping a meeting short is a skill, and it's a lot harder than it looks. It also requires the support of the meeting leader, but it sounds as if he wants to help but doesn't know how. Some ideas:
I suggest recording screencasts of about 45 mins. Get everyone together and the presenter does a screencast and transfers the knowledge. It's easier and more effective to show how to do something, then just written documentation (which might also include extra time for formatting, etc.) At one place I used to work, they had a "Lunch n'learn" on a weekly or monthly basis. One guy eats lunch early, and does a presentation for the team while they eat. This might work if people are strapped for time.
One of our tech leads has a great policy, the third time she gets the same question, she writes up the answer and emails it to the person asking and to the knowlege wiki we have set up. Since she was probably going to write that email anyway, the only additional work is to add the address for the Wiki.
This is really a policy problem, not a motivation one. Employees with critical knowledge should be given the opportunity and to document it and it should be mandatory. If they do not provide ample documentation and their supervisors have given them enough "free" time to do it, they should be disciplined. No matter how much a person knows or can accomplish, if they are the only one with that knowledge, then they are a liability. Documentation shouldn't be optional.
It sounds like you have tried honesty and bluntness so you are going to have to try work-arounds, but primarily accept it and try to make the best of it. Some things to try:
The US government accepts digital signatures on tax returns (Enter your name, SSN, and a PIN). I assume the IRS considers that a binding signature. Your mileage (and jurisdiction) may vary.
The governing statute in the US is the . Generally, courts have treated the situation as "if both parties treat it as a signature, then so will we" (section 1-303 of the calls this " "). I used to work for a company where we dealt with the signatures and attestations; ESIGN is a bit complicated as the supporting regulations also require things like the electronic documents be readable and provable for at least 10 years. is an attempt to make PDF documents suitable for long-term archival.
Maybe I have had people contact me looking to fill positions. actually I get several calls a month. Before I give them any information on me I want to know the following:
The reason people tease about things like that is because they are uncomfortable about what they perceive as a weakness in themselves. It's a back-handed way of paying you a compliment. If you have a sharp but witty and playful retort ready, one of two things will happen: either you will all be having fun together, or it will stop being fun for them.
Regarding resume: put the degree and when you expect to see it. If nobody did it this way, all new graduates would have to wait months after graduation to get a job. Yes start looking now. With the economy we have had the last few years there is no way to predict how long the search will take. The risk is that you will be applying for jobs that can't wait for you to graduate. But you might gain experience in interviewing. Also your time as an intern to find a job.
We have a daily "standup" meeting, although many do sit. The meeting lasts 15 minutes, no more. After fifteen minutes, an alarm goes off and it's over. This seems to be sufficient to keep people on-topic.
I had kind of the same situation at my previous employer. I ended up just starting to write up in our wiki each time I had a new non-trivial support issue I had to deal with. It was somewhat enlightening, as there was a significant amount of information that I had just internalized. Even the tiny issues really assume that you have at least some level of institutional knowledge. It's a pain to do when you start, but afterwards, it's kinda nice as you can take a vacation and maybe get one phone call instead of 3-4 a day.:)
I would say you should document everything you do. If the only documentation is the checklist then yes, it should be saved somehow. A note on terminology though, I'm not talking about "documentation" in the sense of someone else referring to it later, I'm talking about a record of your activities, suitable for mentioning at your performance review. Keeping a list of what you've done will help you put together a statement of accomplishments, and if you've missed important goals it will give you an idea of what other tasks came up that made the goals/deadlines slip.
You should check your companies document retention policy. Some companies may require you retain them, some require that you do not. The reason is after a certain amount of time they can be considered discover-able documents for legal proceedings. These vary by company. I have worked at companies that considered any document over 5 years a record that required retention. Even if it was a menu used for take out that had a not scribbled on it.
Keep in mind that some people will scan the cards into a database. The simpler the construct the better. Strange colors and graphics frustrate the OCR software. If you only have cell phone, put it on the card. Don't put contact info that will be useless after graduation. So no college email address, or college phone number.
I think the message has been lost. The idea was to encourage girls to pursue education because of all jobs they could get if they went to college. In many places it is just an open house day, to show families what their parent does at work. When done correctly the payoff is not immediate, the young girls that are inspired are not ready to enter the work force for another 10 years. Plus this is not recruiting them to work for you, so they probably end up working for somebody else.
There are a number of websites that give salary data for positions by location (salary.com or something like that, being one). There is also nothing to stop you applying for jobs elsewhere whilst in your current job and attending interviews to find out what you might get paid, though I would definitely be discreet about it.
If you are in the public sector (certainly in the UK) job adverts will include the salary range that they are offering for that role. If you can find a position that matches yours you can compare your salary against that in the advertisement.
You don't have to leave to see what others will pay you. Apply to some interesting positions or companies. See if you get an interview or an offer. The search may result in determining that you like where you are, or that you really want to switch jobs. You will probably be asked why you applied, but you should be able to give a sufficient reason besides "just looking". Also posting your resume on LinkedIn, monster. will get some inquiries.
I have never seen a job posting that specified the "Belbin team role". I could see how when assembling a project team the team could need people from all these roles. These types would be pulled from current employees. I would be very surprised to see it mentioned in an advertisement. I would be even more surprised to see it mentioned on a resume or CV.
If you want to show it at the bottom (along with other interests, etc.) perhaps along with Briggs-Meyer type, it might be interesting and show your ability to do some self-reflection, but I wouldn't want to see it in the main body of the resume, if for no other reason than that most folks don't know what the heck it is!
One of the effects is that people spend time and effort trying to circumvent these restrictions - at least it appears that way given the number of times the question comes up on Super User.
There are lots of ways to do this! Here are some ideas to get you started. Now the only downside to this - and some people really feel this is significant - is that it trains your team to expect rewards beyond the normal rewards of working. You will need to decide if it's worth it.
Look around the room at lunch. Are others reading books, listening to their MP3 player, reading a newspaper, reading a non-technical magazine, watching CNN? If they are doing these things, and it is your personal phone/iPad why is it different? You could even be playing "words with friends" or some similar game, with somebody at the table. If you are in the break room, and you haven't exceeded the allowable break time, why should anybody care? Oh some will, but they will be in the minority.
Your lunch hour is typically "off the clock" and tacked onto your working day, so IMO it's acceptable to do anything within reason during that time, especially if it's using your own equipment.
I'm one of those old-fashioned interviewers who just directly asks what I want to know: Then listen to which one more closely describes a typical project at your company. A really good follow-up question about the demotivating project is what techniques they tried to mitigate the issues, or things they might have tried given more autonomy. Don't kid yourself that every project at your company is intrinsically motivational. You need employees with coping skills to get things done when the task is important but unfun.
According to 's, jobs that require teamwork (increasingly common) are best performed in an open office. Quote below with my emphasis:
I think the answer depends entirely on your personality - whether you have a lot of self-discipline or not. If you do not, you will probably over time tend to cut the day short, make longer breaks or procrastinate, pushing the work into the weekend. This may or may not be acceptable for the company provided this does not affect your coworkers.
I am working in a company that moved 3 times. We had 2 different setup: Try to group people within the same team. It depends on how big teams are, but they should be close, and the number of people in the office should be small enough not to distract each other.
This isn't a direct answer but, since I posted the question, I've worked out a rather neat workaround. I contact the team leader (face to face or, if not possible, via instant messenger) in advance and say, "I'm currently working on X. If I keep working on it instead of coming to the meeting I can be done by Y o'clock. My input for the meeting is Z. Would you prefer I came in person or continue with this task?" This probably won't work every day, but every time it does is, for me, a bonus.
I would be looking at definite things that your product does to help that person and mention those, also listen to your potential customer and take their information on board. Not only will that help your product in the future but the customer will remember you and your company as approachable. If you need to do the hard-sell then do you have the right product for the person? Does it make its own purpose clear? If not then you might want to mention this to your company.
It seems that higher education never hurts, but beyond that, it's hard to say how important it is. Really depends on what you're after in your career. It can be absolutely critical, it can be less important, but I'm not sure how to quantify it without applying it to something more specific.
Well it depends on the following points - There can be more points added to the above list. If you are in service industry and your employees meets the customer frequently such as in banking and finance industry, a strict dress-code is must (Can be relaxed a bit for operations and processing guys). Generally in IT industry dress codes are more relaxed (Not for Business development guys). So until unless we have a subject industry, we can not say whether it's beneficial or not to have a dress-code in our company.
I prefer to wait to ask for an increase until I've actually demonstrated that I can handle the new responsibilities. I find that it makes for a much more compelling case when I start the conversation to justify a pay increase. It also shows your bosses that you're not "just in it for the money" (regardless of whether or not you actually are.)
Part of being a manager is dealing with unpleasant things like this. It's your job. That's why you're getting paid even though you don't actually produce anything tangible. You deal with it by being direct with the person in question, and just letting them know the fact that daily bathing is an expectation of the job. "There are jobs where you bathe after work, rather than before, but this isn't one of them. I need you to come to work having showered and wearing clean clothes."
I would do so immediately. If possible before the promotion is announced. I would let them know that while you desire the role you took this position at less pay because it would require less of a commitment. Since the new role will have requirements of extra commitment I would expect a significant increase in salary. If you wait and do the work for a while at your current rate you actually lose leverage in negotiating a new rate.
One of the primary responsibilities of a project manager is to help clear roadblocks and facilitate communications between stakeholders. The last thing a project manager would want would be to not hear about a problem that needs attention until the weekly status meeting, for example.
Websites dedicated to job finding probably have a clear and easy way to input new job opportunities and get them displayed in manner of minutes. When it comes to company's private website, sometimes it can be wholly managed by a single webmaster without any special tools for any such tasks. In that case it can take awhile before the new information is inputted to the website, especially if the person is making it harder for some people.
The best way is simply to be open and honest about why you don't want to go - this makes it clear that you are not making up excuses to hide something else. Nobody worth knowing is going to think less of you for not wanting to spend money on food you don't like. As long as they don't feel that you're trying to avoid the team, then they've no reason to take offence.
I am a bit of a snob when it comes to food, but my experiences in my career have shown that the benefits of going to team lunches far outweighs the downsides. Avoiding the group lunches means that you will end up outside of the team, and I've never figured out how to counter that effect.
Of course it's acceptable to decline, but be prepared to accept the consequences of your actions that this may occur. Such as
You can't force people to give you feedback. From what you say, you have already contacted them by email - this is about the limit of what you can do. It is entirely possibly that the reason for declining is something the interviewers are embarrassed about (or can't talk about). Some companies have a policy of not divulging the reasons for fear of legal consequences.
I recently had a phone interview with Amazon. I thought it went well, but they called back and said I wasn't a fit for the role. I asked for feedback, and was specifically told by the recruiter that she "cannot provide specific feedback". It might be a company policy.
Does the employer let you leave the premise during lunch? If so then it shouldn't make any difference when and what you do during your lunch. If you can leave and play video games offsite, then you should be able to sit at our desk/break area and do the same thing. I don't think you should need to leave work just to enjoy your break. If your company feels they need to control everything you do during a break, then maybe it's time to find a different workplace.
You will almost never get such feedback in the US. Mostly because people are concerned about lawsuits, they'll never say "it appeared to us that you were weak in area_Q" because that invites an argument/discussion that no, you are fully qualified in area_Q. Likewise, if you rubbed them the wrong way, you won't get an accurate assessment of the issue.
I don't think there is a single correct answer about it. In either case, you've got to get your work done, and/or at least avoid being found slacking/relaxing a majority of the time to be held in high regard as a motivated, productive worker.
Don't be greedy. If it's more than you wanted anyway, just take it. You could risk it, but you may end up blowing the opportunity if they decide to revoke their offer altogether and offer it to someone else. The choice is yours. Choose wisely.
There aren't any hard and fast rules about "you MUST counter the first offer" - If you have an offer you like, accept it. That said, these are the guidelines I've always used: I'm also a big proponent of "Make me an offer based on what you think I'm worth" rather than naming a number. If I am forced to name a number I name a range, and I aim high, for the reasons I already mentioned above.
In my last interview they asked, as they always do, if I have any further questions. I replied: And I got an honest (and positive) reply. I was offered the job and I accepted. (I used "felt" instead of "thought", because I thought that will be lower threshold to answer.)
We have all said something over a few beers that we later regret. That probably includes your friend, he probably wont hold you to it. Probably the best approach is just to be honest. Offer to give his resume to HR directly (this does get him a foot in the door at least) but be clear that you cant recommend him as you don't know him well enough.
When you don't know the candidate too much, but do wish if he gets in the job, here is what you should do. So here is the overall policy. If a great profile has filled a good job position - you have done a good job. If the there is no job or no fitment between the candidate and job it was never your fault anyway!
Ask the interviewer to provide you feedback and if he doesn't provide then file a RTI (Right to information act). You will surely get the reply. But it depends on country in India RTI is very powerful and anyone can file online to get information from anyone.
You will not get any sort of feel for the office. This is important, especially if you will be working there after your internship. Most interns have some sort of "in-the-office" experience. Not having this prevents you from: Really, being in the office is always better. And if you eventually get a job, do not work remotely.
One more reason to add to the answers already given. The company may be using an outside recruiter and the recruiter is posting the ad on the job board and not the company directly. In this situation where the company wants the recruiter to do some vetting of candidates before HR looks at them they may not post the ad on their own site to avoid being contacted directly by the candidate.
Unless you want to invest the effort to investigate if they guy is really a good candidate, I'd suggest trying going the route of Introducing him to the right people in the company instead of full-on recommending him. This means that you should have a conversation with the HR person first and make it clear that you don't personally know much about the candidate other than a personal relationship, but you'd appreciate the favor of giving him an audience with HR or the hiring manager.
Is there somebody else in the office that can help you? If they have experience working with same boss they may be able to provide guidance regarding your preparation and presentation. Some managers have a style and personalty that makes this type of meeting difficult. The way they ask questions is misinterpreted as being disapproving. The manager may not even realize they are intimidating their employees. The mentor can identify if this is a problem that everybody has. Also the process of having them review your presentation in advance can you the confidence you need.
It's worth asking what the rest of the office does. If you are the only telecommuter - I'd say no - for many of the reasons listed elsewhere - networking, out of the loop, missing the culture. However - if a substantial portion of the staff are 100% telecommuters - let's say 40% or more - then it may be alright, becuase the culture has evolved from a face to face thing, to something that can be experienced online.
My question to you is what benefit would you gain from putting LaTex on there? I try hard not to put a single word on my resume that won't help me get the actual positions I want. If I don't intend to work in a technology, for instance, I won't put it on there even if I have experience with it. If you are applying for jobs where this technology would be helpful, add it, If not, then something else might be a better use for the space.
It is an extremely bad idea! It definitely will hurt the society; It may hurt the company and it may hurt you as well.
If you steal software for your company then you can get both you and them into a lot of trouble (including fines big enough to make the company go bust). A lot of companies (e.g. Microsoft) make much more of an effort to persue corporate piracy than consumer.
Most software is available as a demo version. You can use this trial to demonstrate the benefit of this software (such as increased productivity) and then show the results to your boss. If you can persuade him, you'll get this software legally. If you can not, then let it be! The responsibility for the leak of productivity (if there really is any) then is on someone else. Question yourself: Why do you want to risk anything?
No, don't do it!! It will not only get your company in trouble, it will also put you at risk as well, and potentially end up with a criminal record. Some software publishers such as Microsoft will conduct site audits to make sure that all software are being used legally, and with the appropriate license. If you find that you need a particular tool to do your job, convince your company to buy it. Again, No, don't do it!!
Try to do the right thing. I've been in many organizations where the culture of piracy was rampant. Ironically, these were tech firms. Sometimes there's resistance to buying licenses. Perhaps it depends on the size of the company. You can get the organization in quite a bit of trouble by doing this, though. Cover yourself.
I have a nice set of. Noise isolation without resorting to full-on noise-cancellation. The visual of employees wearing big headphones when visitors/clients come through is not a good thing (in some organizations). To keep focus, I work in using a modified. It's an easy way to keep focus on specific tasks.
Acceptable to whom? Clearly it is acceptable to you, or you wouldn't be asking. If your question is "is this acceptable to my boss?" then the person you should be asking is your boss. Let us know how that conversation goes. It's certainly not acceptable to me.
I'm afraid the options are limited and the limitations depends on your physical work environment and what the company you work for are willing to do. I'd say the solutions I've seen are a combination of these: If you are looking for a "silver bullet" that will solve all issues I think you will be disappointed. I think that the best you will find are options 3, 6 and 5. If that isn't enough, you will need to consider 8.
If you are finding work for yourself or through recruitment agencies, I'd say list who you did the work for. However, if the staffing agency finds you the work and actually holds the contract with the "more impressive" company then that's a different situation. In that case I'd say that I was employed by the staffing agency (company A) and I worked at Company B, Company C, etc, for these times with these responsibilities. That way your prospective employer can contact the right HR department for the relevant references etc.
On resumes, I usually list the contracting company first, then the client company second. For example, if I worked for "Bob's Bodyshop" as a contractor, and they placed me at "Big Shiny Corp", I usually put something like: I know many folks say "1 page!" but I find that one cannot trim a resume to one page and get any meaningful details across. One of my friends uses a functional resume, and his is 8 pages long. Mine is chronological, and I try to keep mine to 3 pages. We are both in our 50s.
I agree with, for most contact jobs. One case I would also like to share is when you work contract to hire and you get hired. I have several of these on my resume and I show them like this: This gets several points across: It shows the total time I worked for the well-known company, and it lets the employer know that I was a temp-to-hire and I got hired, and it makes sure the HR reference check into my employment dates won't conflict with what I said on my resume.
I'm a manager and I do quite a bit of interviewing. I will only print out and read your first two pages (double sided, one page of dead tree). Anything beyond that is probably wasting my time. If you couldn't summarize your relevant skills in two pages, you'll probably have trouble writing succinct and accurate reports, emails, bug reports, code comments, design specs, etc. If you want to list lots of companies, go ahead. Just give a one-liner for each. Save a tree, and my time.
I'm not going to argue what's right or wrong, but the fact of the matter is that using pirated software is illegal. You should NEVER do something illegal on your job, no matter if it's OK by your boss (even if he/she explicitly tells you to). If your company won't supply you with the software you need to perform your assigned duties, then that's not your problem.
In the US, when I have worked for contracting companies, they tend to dislike giving their competition credit. For that, I list the company where I did the work, my title and append " - Consultant". HR understands what that means usually. And as long as you make it clear you were working as a consultant (contractor, external, whatever their title for outside contractors is), few companies are going to care. This is often different in Europe, or anywhere they prefer a more accurate CV. On a CV always list the company you actually employed by.
All of the ideas before this one make setting time aside far more complicated than it needs to be. 20% is one day of any week. This way four days are spent working on "normal" projects. One day per week for four weeks are spent on "other" more inspirational work. Try this process on for size.
I do a very simple sub list under the consulting/contracting company that I work for and limit it to 1-3 bullet points of highlights about what I did for the client. Two important things to remember to protect yourself:
It's usually as simple as scheduling an appointment. It might sound formal, but it's a lot easier for him to limit distractions when he can plan ahead for you. Our team has a 15-minute meeting every morning, and my manager schedules one-on-one appointments with everyone every two weeks. Between those two we cover 99% of our communication needs.
A resume should be as short as possible. Having said that, your 5-pages CV is huge (no matter how much experience you have). I am an SW engineer with 12 years of experience, with several projects behind me. Once I received a resume of a 10 years experienced engineer. It was very long, and written in not to easily understand language. After the first page I gave up. So, I would recommend you to have two versions of CV: one short condensed (shouldn't be longer then 2 pages), and another long with all details.
Just what I use to aid with the operations and organisation of working virtually! Hope it is of some help.
Humor and Patience. That is, wait a while. Maybe some weeks. Then when things are relaxed mention it in a group setting as a joke, e.g. 'Yeah, well we all know what happens when we [follow bad practice x], from when we saw effect y right. ha ha'. Note you're not even mentioning the persons name, but ina group setting folk have a chance to agree or refute you.
You have a tough job in your hand. And as far as i understand there isn't straight forward way to go! But change you need. And it can only be through a tough perseverance you can get.
If legitimacy is the only thing you are worried about, go get some referrals from clients that can back it up. As for time spent, as long as you aren't seen as being a chronic job hopper it really shouldn't be an issue. If it's 2 or 3 in a row where you haven't put in at least a couple of years it might look bad but then that depends on the industry as well.
I would say no, it makes the meeting too fragmented. If there's a lot of topics that are completely irrelevant to you then it's a sign that either you shouldn't be there, or the meeting agenda should be changed (reduced) to only cover items that all participants need to be there for. Some of the problems it raises are: can generate a lack of respect; can lead to 'double' explanations when it turns out the item was relevant; increases distraction when device clicks, beeps, vibrates, etc.
Take the person aside and talk to them. They may not realize it, as I've had coworkers with (lack of sense of smell) and some with sinus infections. Sinus infections tend to give folks horrible breath - which they cannot smell themselves. I've also lived and worked in other countries where what is considered acceptable is very different from the US. Deodorant for men was considered effeminate until some advertising campaigns during the 1960s.
I really think it would depend on whether the others at the meeting would be grateful for your promptness (closing the issue before the meeting even ends) or unhappy at losing your attention or the flow of the meeting while you do the fix.
So for me, It Depends. I'm lucky enough to be blessed with a convertible, and wireless in most meeting rooms, so I usually have it open for making notes in a way that's not obtrusive and let's me also follow what's being said. This means I can do two things fairly easily; What I don't do is try to get unrelated work done, it would be possible, but as several have said, it's rude. It means you're in the meeting but not participating.
If the style of the meeting makes it appropriate then yes complete those small tasks. If the meeting is close to being a then not only is it appropriate, but it is probably even appreciated. I have even used a smartphone/laptop to pull up relevant info to keep the meeting moving. I have also been involved with projects where the meeting is designed to be one way communication, so fixing the problem as soon as it is mentioned would be seen as disrespectful. I prefer meetings and projects where participants feel comfortable with responding to requests in real time.
The time-honored way to deal with bosses who have unreasonable expectations is to band together and form a labor movement. If your country has, join one that defends workers in your branch and category. If it doesn't, consider joining an underground labor movement (but note that it can be dangerous). If you live in a place where the labor market is in your favor, change jobs.
Practicing drama or music, or getting used to public speaking (for example by being active in a non-protit organization or a political movement), can be very good training for such stressful situations. It's well-known that there are two kinds of actors: those whose knees shake before a performance, and those who've learned to ignore the shaking. Picturing the other person in their underwear is also said to boost your confidence by clearing any perception of superiority you may have about the other person. It doesn't work for everybody in every circumstance.
I can very much understand this question. I am self employed and is very nearly impossible to take a vacation without conducting business. My best plan is to take an hour in morning and in evening. Leave a voice mail indicating response times. I've found this to work best.
Making a mistake as a new employee is truly nerve wrecking, but seeing that it was your first mistake it is unlikely that you will be fired as taking on new employees always implies and investment that they will be reluctant to lose. I would suggest the following: Taking responsibility doesn't just mean owning up to your mistake, but also by taking part in the implementation of processes that make things work better. Good luck with the meeting!
Were you assigned a direct mentor/supervisor for your internship? Assuming you're in a situation that really truly requires help from within the company, this is the person you should go to with all your questions. S/he can then decide who is best suited to help and ask that person for you. Building on NickC's comments about proprietary systems, ask your supervisor or HR manager if you can cross-train with groups using everything you interact with. If they've already committed to hiring you upon graduation, they should be committed to helping you succeed within the company.
Think about the cash. the cash always works. It may sound funny, but it's true. If you think about the money you are going to earn, and your job security, you'll be all good. Of course, this may not work for everyone (i.e. people who's religion forbids them from admiring material things), but it works for me!
You look forward to the projects you do find exciting. Every profession has boring/tedious/monotonous aspects. Take for example, a pro basketball player. The most exciting part for a pro basketball player is actually playing in games. Behind the scenes, they may have a lot of traveling, paperwork, attending practices, exercising and so on, that is not exciting. So you can tell yourself, "The sooner I finish lame project X, I can start working on awesome project Y"
Only if it helps the meeting. I would consider these cases to be acceptable and helpful: Don't do research or try to solve a problem during a meeting. The following would fall in this bad category:
As long as your manager isn't pressing you to do overtime and you're not being penalized for your schedule, don't worry about it. People have different work habit's, don't stress out about other's habits unless they are negatively effecting you. If you want to know how you get promoted or a salary bump, ask your supervisor.
To your main question, yes of course you should charge. Anything that takes time, you should charge for. You might want to maintain a count of emails though and charge (say) 10 minutes or 15 minutes per email. But I'm also struck by your remark that emails interrupt your regular work. This suggests to me that you have sounds or alerts turned on for email while you're working - something you should turn off to allow you to be more productive. Prioritize email down when you're doing project work - you'll be surprised at the difference in your ability to get things done.
As per my comment, I would genuinely suggest you visit a doctor and have them sign you off due to stress. Given that you're experiencing physical symptoms, such as pain in the left arm and a tight chest, it's really important you go and at least have a chat with a medical professional.
Even if there's nothing "physically" wrong with your body don't discount the magnitude and seriousness of emotional stress. It is as "real" as any disease and is fully capable of wrecking your career or worse. Stress also makes other bad things such as depression and chronic diseases more likely. Please find ways to address it for yourself even after getting out of that job. See also Robert Saplosky's fascinating book about the physiology of stress " " and his excellent and.
Software can always be improved. Here are some things you could do when there is no immediate need for code: I'm sure you can think of a few more.
In general, I would say that the time to give notice is when you know 100% you will be working with the other employer. If the new job is contigent on something (such as a background check), don't give notice until it's done, because if something does turn up and they decide not to hire you because of it, you could find yourself either with no job, or begging for your old job back. And yes, it could push out the start date but it's only reasonable since they are pushing the lengthy background check.
I would say it depends on the type of company you own. Would the email address look unprofessional for the jobs you are applying for? If not then use it. The big free email providers, gmail, hotmail, yahoo are all considered standard and a good choice. Personally, I believe everyone should attempt to obtain a personal domain and email. It's good branding strategy to have your own website.
YES! Until the contingencies are released, you should not give notice. The new employer is setting the conditions. they won't finalize the offer until after the background check clears. Make clear to HR and the hiring manager that you will give professional notice once the offer is finalized. When they press you for a start date, repeat "the Monday 2 weeks after the offer is finalized."
Only include anything on your CV if it adds value and shows competency in the field your working in. So for example as an engineer your blog about Algerian cat breeding wouldn't add value and shouldn't be included but a blog about engines would.
The answer depends if your current employer knows you are looking for a new job. Its reasonable to assume most background checks will involve calling your current employer. If the first they hear about your job hunt is a reference call then its likely to reflect badly on you. If they know then you can wait till you get the green light.
When someone corresponds with me with an email address that is from a company, my initial reaction is that this person is: I suggest that getting a gmail, hotmail, yahoo or even one from your local ISP.
It sounds like you need something a little bit more powerful than the Windows color schemes tool (basically something that intercepts the whole graphics stream at the video card and tweaks it)? A little googling lead me to, which seems to be able to tweak color curves and gamma globally. It might be able to help you out with taming the stray pixels that Windows isn't catching. Caveat: I'm a Mac/Unix guy - I know nothing about this software except and on the manufacturer's site, so while it looks promising it's equally possible I'm talking out my behind.
Short answer is no. Working for only 3 weeks in a permanent position would be a red flag to a potential employer (it indicates you could have been sacked). Career gaps are an even bigger red flag but nobody will notice just three weeks so your safe to omit it. I suggest you do a pet project that uses the skills you talk about. You can then demonstrate your new skills without detracting from your cv
One popular book is. In the US, there is an organization called which helps develop public-speaking skills. Joining a local chapter or another public-speaking club can really help you in expressing ideas and getting your point across. You also mentioned missing the point of an email. You need to ask yourself, "What is being said here?" If you can't answer that for yourself, you can always reply back with a clarifying question. It's never dumb to ask a question (that you can't answer yourself)
Here are two simple things that have helped me a lot in workplace communications. These are "meeting" related, but provide excellent practice for all forms of communication: Doing these simple things easily put you far above average as far as effective workplace communication goes. The hard part is making your writing effective. Writing is a skill that can be improved almost without limit even by the most introverted personalities. Two books that are the writer's "equivalent" of K&R and H&S are and. I can't recommend them enough.
If you have regular reviews in your organization then that would be the appropriate time and place to ask the boss directly if there really is an unwritten 'face time' policy. If not, then then just meet the boss in private and ask the question in a frank and professional manner. Don't be emotional, don't talk about 'feelings'. Just ask if he's OK with your work routine or not.
How would you respond to the request normally? There isn't much different at a new job except the following: By "not much different" I mean you should only consider taking the interview request if there is a good reason to: If you decide to decline, you should simply say "I've already taken a new position, but thank you for your response." And, if you'd like them to retain your resume for the future, say so.
If you didn't intend to leave your current job, or the new opportunity looks flying sexy, it is a waste of time of everyone to attend the interview. If you want to decline the interview, you can say, I think this (just-joined-somewhere) is enough, for recruiter not to bother you.
Its a bad idea. By doing it in person your just increasing their workload and refusing to use the recruitment procedure they set. Imagine if all the applicants handed everything in person?
I read an advice from an article, that is recommended to have an interview every six months or year even if you are enrolled, that would help to understand what new things managers care about, or what skills are more important currently,
I am myself a junior software engineer working in a video game company. When I applied, I personally handed a physical copy of my CV and a CD containing several of my projects. After a bunch of interview and tests I got the job. The HR guy told me afterward that my CV stood out because it was rare for him to receive a physical one. So I guess it depends on the company.
Communicating to get results really boils down to one simple principle - Hone your message done to what the listener is going to hear. This has been expressed in several ways by several great books, but here are few ways of seeing this principle at work: Again, in each of these things, the point of effective communication is this simple - Focus on the recipient, not yourself. The best communication has a hint of yourself but is made concrete in a way that says "You are the most important recipient of this."
Include this information in an 'additional information' section at the bottom of your resume along with your SE username and a link to your profile. Most reviewers will want to look at a current electronic copy of your resume, so the link will often be helpful to them.
This answer is based purely on your update, in which you said Given there is precedent, it would not be unprofessional to politely inquire at contract extension time if the offer to switch to Company B is on the table again. All of the general information in is absolutely true and should be considered; however, in the specific situation where a precedent has already been set, it's not unreasonable to politely inquire about possibilities.
In situations in which I am on a committee, and I receive thank you notes from individuals, I do not respond. The only instance in which I would respond would be if I were the committee chair. When I do respond, as either committee manager or as an individual interviewer (when there's no committee), I keep my acknowledgement brief (and I only respond if it's an emailed thank-you): "Thank you for your interest, and for taking the time to talk with us about the position. Our decision timeline is."
I hit this one too - I've stared at a blank page for up to 20 minutes thinking "geez, a simple "your welcome" should not be so hard!" I agree that 2 out of 3 of your samples are too indicative. Sadly, in this day and age, it seems we have to be very careful at anything that sounds like a commitment. Here's some stuff I've felt OK with: Things I avoid:
Thank you notes are considered a one way message with no requirement or expectation of a response when received. They are a token sign of grattitude and a last attempt to make a postive impression on the interviewer. Unless of course the sender asked you a question or made a statement that you decide you would like them to explain more.
Frankly, it sounds like your former employer is abusing his family friend status to get out of paying you. He's essentially stealing a large amount of money from you. You're not the bad guy for wanting to be paid. Give him a final warning, with a very short deadline and then do whatever you'd do if he was not a family friend.
I think you have decide which you value more - the family friend relationship or the employment relationship. And it would help to know if he really doesn't have money, or is messing with you. Thoughts:
Customization: Only include information that is relevant to the position you're applying to. That means you will have a different CV for each application. It also means that you need to research your target position and employer very thoroughly and find out what they are looking for. When I apply for a research position, I emphasize my research skills. When I apply for a software development position, I emphasize my IT skills.
I got a secret clearance for a job a few years ago. There was no polygraph. No one else I worked with needed one for that clearance level. One of the people there was ex-Air Force. He had to get a polygraph while in the AF as part of his duties but it was a small set of information they could ask about - it was an open ended set of questions. (There was a technical term for the difference (s) - not sure) In my experience you won't get a polygraph for lower security clearances.
The employment classification matters: 1099 or W2? If it was as a 1099, it might be permissible and desirable to consider trading the debt via real property of comparable value. For example, if the employer owes OP 3k, and employer has a small fishing boat worth 4k or thereabouts, consider taking the boat to satisfy the debt (and of course with a signed title and bill of sale when applicible). Then obviously the OP can choose to keep the real property, or attempt to sell it, possibly for further profit. If it was a W2 employee, this almost certainly wouldn't be allowed.
Politely, but firmly. Don't fish for a counter offer. Stay super positive. "I've enjoyed my time here and learned a lot, but it's time for a change." It's not you, it's me.:) Never never never accept a counter offer. Don't even entertain the idea. See. Repeat as necessary: "I'm flattered by your counter-offer, but I've decided this transition would be best for me and my career." As soon as your supervisor says it's ok to do so. Earlier is better than later. Then connect with them on LinkedIn so you can stay in touch.
If you will need to contact them outside the office you would need it for that. However I would not ask for it. If they want you to be able to call them they need to give you the number. Let them do their job and you can focus on yours.
Nobody, and I mean nobody will take the time to type in a URL that they see on a printed CV. So, from that perspective I say no because there's no point in putting the URLs there to begin with. If you have an electronic CV, there's no point in shortening them because the user isn't going to type the URL in, either.
Just to add one more approach for those who hit this problem in the future, in the end I just wrote a simple, neutral reply:
It depends on the purpose of the polygraph. They will be looking for certain types of information. You covered the major possibilities: They will also be looking at items they never asked you about. They may be looking for anything you are trying to hide. Often for the work related poly they will go over the questions before the instruments are on. During the test they only want yes or no answers. They go over the questions early so that you don't start a debate about the meaning of the word "is" during the middle of the exam.
To add a minor point to all of the excellent cautions above: there is no guarantee that a shortened URL is persistent. TinyURL and bit.ly seem to be doing fine right now, but I still remember my surprise when in 2009.
You could try to add a clause into the contract that specifies that you have a regular salary review. I would expect this to be annual, so is the contract much longer than a year? You say that you're expecting to move to different projects - this could be an opportunity to renegotiate salary too. However, be careful what you wish for here. A renegotiation could be down as well as up. Most permanent full time jobs usually only offer annual reviews (at best) so a more frequent salary review would be unusual.
The best answer to the question "are you looking?" is "I'm always on the lookout for better opportunities - and I'm sure you are too."
In addition to the other great answers, make sure you have the new offer as a signed written contract before informing your boss. You really don't want to resign only to find the new offer falls through.
Sometimes it's a matter of practicality. I'm sure there are plenty of other reasons, but letting employees know earlier than needed really serves no benefit. If that is indeed the case, why bother?
One previous employer would routinely send QA and developers to tradeshows where the company had a booth. One of the difficulties with "shrinkwrap" business software is that the folks writing the software don't always know their customers (in this case, accountants and actuaries). So for this company, it was helpful to get the techies out to learn how the users actually used the product.
I think it is a question of the complexity of your product. If you have a technically very complex product, non-marketing personell should be usefull as a backup in discussions where the marketing people are out of their depth.
We use recruiters pretty often and normally request that they keep the company name out of the picture until later stages if its for more senior positions. If you are a listed company, it's pretty much a given that the company name won't be mentioned because even small things can affect market perception and you don't really want to take even minimal risk. Even if you aren't listed but are relatively well known, most people won't want the market to know that their R&D director is leaving soon, etc, etc.
The concept you're looking for is called "lifetime customer value" Look at your company's customer-retention rate, and calculate how much more money they'd make if it increased by even a small amount (5% for example). If that number is large enough, executives will listen.
Recruiters use Google and they use it well. Online resumes are much more important than Word resumes. I used to maintain a Word resume and still occasionally run into people insisting on one. Historically, such people have been a complete waste of time and energy on job searches and I now ignore them with the same happy zeal as people who want you to re-enter all of your resume info into their own form field setup on some site (I wouldn't recommend even Jr level devs waste time on those).
I prefer the uncomplicated version. Get offers from other companies that you'd be happy working for. See if your current company is willing to compete with those offers. That takes the personal/value judgment factor right out of it and makes everything strictly business and you have a plan B if they don't want to pay more.
My approach would be to focus first one the work and slip salary in "after" that, so I would schedule regular review meetings, say quarterly and at each one, make sure to ascertain: After 2 or 3 of these, from which you've got a clear, documented track record, and if the feedback is good, start to say "well, given that I'm doing a good job, I wanted to discuss salary. I think we can both agree that I'm underpaid, right?"
on 's "cryptography applied to document management" solution. I have not used this but when I read the article I immediately thought of this question.
I have a friend that works at Amazon - probably one of the most bring-your-pet-to-work friendly companies in the US (besides pet stores etc.) - and he can't bring his dogs in to work because Amazon doesn't 100% own the building that he is in. I'd check out what the building ownership/lease information says before I talked to anyone at work about it. If you can't bring a pet in to work for contractual reasons, there is no reason taking it any further.
It's better to apply directly to the companies in this case. The recruiter here is being opportunistic and is unlikely to help you in the recruitment process, so why to add a middleman in between you and the company.
If you're pretty confident that they are being shady, I would ignore them and use it as an opportunity to winnow down the list of recruiters with whom you may work in the future. Additionally, depending on your level of confidence, it may be worth reporting to either the employer or a higher up in the recruiting organization. But this doesn't sound egregious enough for that.
DHH from 37signals. He also hassles them over twitter when they email him asking if he wants to relocate for a entry-level Ruby position. Personally, I just send a canned sales pitch right back at them "Sorry Jim, I'm not looking for a job right now, but my company is full of really talented developers, the same caliber as the ones you are looking for to fill your position, and we could definitely help you out. etc. etc." Then I offer to re-write their recruitment management software for them so they can do a better job matching candidates.
If you can sleuth your way to the original job listing, skip the middleman and contact the company directly! Now, not all technical recruiters are terrible- from my experience the bad ones tend to be the ones that scour through so many resumes and jobs. I applied to a newsletter for one that gave weekly job listings, but getting a response from any I was interested in was futile. I had a better, more personal experience with smaller agencies. They tend to have less candidates coming their way and you won't get so lost in the shuffle.
I think teams that work in a true Agile development environment experience interaction on a similar level to what you are talking about. Also believe it or not with regards to social intelligence (which also, consequentially drives productivity and team performance) So, if you're looking for a smart and well performing group with excellent social interaction, you'd be well served looking at companies that both practice agile development methodologies and have a solid men/women ratio.
So just rephrase: You may be applying for just an internship, but you'll still be working there for a while and it's not unreasonable to ask questions about the work environment and the company's relationship with its employees. Just be polite about it.
I have previously seen employers lying to applicants just to get them interested in the job. This is more common than you might think, especially in smaller companies or in smaller towns where there is a lack of applicants. Therefore, whatever question you ask and whatever answer you receive, don't take it for granted. Ask your question in a polite manner, but you'll have to work for that company and see for yourself whether that organisation values their employees.
Not at all, even though you're "just an intern" it shows that you're interested in the company for more than just the job experience, you might actually be interested in working for them long-term after your internship is over! Most interviewers would be very happy to receive that kind of question.
You could try the old debt-collector trick and ask for a post-dated check in good faith and promise to only cash it after that date he is promising he will have the payment ready. This forces him to admit he has no intention of paying you by that date, or risk bouncing a check which would cost him more money and possible criminal charges.
Just tell them exactly like you wrote it in your question. I don't think most people would be offended by that especially since you have a valid reason for bringing it up that they will understand.
Smokers are not a federally protected class, but state rights vary. shows a map of which states have enacted legislation protecting smokers. I suspect with healthcare costs going nowhere but up, more and more companies will try to hire nonsmokers only.
Honestly, this is 100% about professionalism. "Please stop cursing when I or someone else is on the phone with a client. It makes us all sound like idiots".
Federal employment law doesn't protect against smoker discrimination, only prohibiting employment activities that discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, and genetics. States are free to protect workers from other discriminations. Twenty-nine states and the District of Columbia currently have laws that protect workers from smoker discrimination, prohibiting employers from refusing to hire smokers and from banning them from smoking outside of the workplace.
Since they still have a website up, you can try to lookup an address for them through their domain registry. For example, this gives contact info, including street addresses for stackexchange. (Note, that query is through their registrar, which I found through a less informative.) Also, you might try tracking down addresses of individual people associated with the company. Talk to your lawyer and see what he can use.
That is way too long. Give as much notice as you can, but 2 weeks notice is standard for managers too, not just employees. Expecting a new employer to wait 3 months for you to start would be a deal killer in my opinion at most places.
It sounds like you deserve it, but it also sounds like policy will be to say no. Instead of a raise, consider asking for a promotion.
Absolutely yes. Though at the end it depends on the nature of your side projects. etc etc, see what I mean? It depends on what kind of things that you do. "getting paid" has nothing to do with the value of your experience.
In general, you are better off not trying to be funny during an interview (barring an interview as a comedian of course) because it is simply too easy to say something offensive accidentally or worse yet, leave a negative impression with someone who takes things seriously. If there is a lunch or dinner portion of the interview you might be able to get away with being a bit lighthearted but you need to remember you are still "on the clock" and there is a critical eye on you.
Business casual is basically a suit with no tie or something similar. I would turn up in a suit you can then take of the tie and jacket if you feel it's appropriate. It's hard to overdress for an interview.
Business Casual could mean different things depending on where you are located and what business sector you are in. From the wikipedia page on: As has been discussed in for some situations, over dressing can be as bad for your interview chances as under dressing, but Business Casual does gives you a pretty good idea of what to expect.
You can take partial credit for the team's achievements: As well, you should be able to point to some individual accomplishments. What do you talk about at your annual or semi-annual performance reviews? If you keep a daily journal of your work, mine that for accomplishments. If not, see what you can find to build a case in your version control system, bug tracking system, or other artifacts.
For part-time positions and internships, it's normal for there to be gaps. You can list them together like this: You can list the military service and study abroad as you did in your question or leave them out. Are they relevant to the companies you're applying to? Do they distinguish you in some useful way?
To I add: I ask for code samples from junior candidates who don't yet have much of a body of experience to talk about. In addition to the judgement factors mentioned by HLGEM, I look for:
It's horrible to think that a good IT person could be passed over due to his choice of tie, but I guess its possible. The seminal work on how to dress in business is the book by John Malloy. Even though it was written in 1988, it's still true today, and it's spawned an industry of imitators. Malloy studies all the major organizational types and gives you a color picture of how to dress for that milieu. Just do what he says.
First, ask them to stop including you on off topic emails, perhaps as a reply to an offending email. If that doesn't work, talk to your supervisor, their supervisor, HR, or whoever is appropiate to handle these situations in your company.
I usually set up a number of folders for things like "office spam" (which is what I generally call things that are sent to all users), with rules to divert specified emails to those folders. Likewise, I set up folders and rules for project management and source control systems that send out emails for every check in. Co-workers who are unusually spammy with jokes, recipes, photos and other non-business related items get their own folders. Those get checked before lunch and before leaving at the end of the day.
One possibility that I have seen effectively implemented is to create a link sharing facility of some sort (Yammer, a Blog, SocialCast, etc.) and ask people to confine jokes, kitty photos, etc. to that. If that's not possible, I would favor the solution proposed by @JohnMcG (partition the distribution list into a "Jokes" list and ask to be removed.)
One solution I haven't seen anyone suggest yet, is to encourage everyone to use proper subject lines. Any emails with JOKE: or POLITICS: as part of the subject can then be filtered away or simply deleted.
If the technology is not "sexy" enough, try to explore other aspects of the application you maintained. And so on. There are many more aspects of software than the mere technology. Also, don't try to hide the fact that it was a legacy system. The vast majority of software work is maintaining legacy systems of varying degrees of "antiqueness".
If you feel this way I would talk to your supervisor about having a role assigned to you that better fits your skillset. The statement you posted doesn't seem to indicate this. I would begin to worry if a brand new hire, with the exact same role, came onto the job being paid exactly what you are being paid. What other changes have taken place? It sounds to be the large coperation placed pressure on the subsidiary to look at how they define roles and job duties and this was simply the outcome.
In the United States, there has been significant litigation and regulation regarding the giving of references. The American Bar Association highlights several potential legal pitfalls in this area and cites specific cases that illustrate these issues.
Two questions: [yes, no]: Kick them (hard) in the ass. [no, yes]: Acknowledge the error but have a sense of humor about it. [no, no]: Take the time to show the rookie the ropes and point out the nature of the problem. [yes, yes]: "Okay, so what happened?"
IMO, banning these sites will not help, because it works on the symptoms, not on the cause. In my experience, people will go surfing the Internet if they are bored by their work or if they need a little break from their work. If it is the second reason, I would not make an issue of it. If it is the first case, you might have deeper issues, which will have a lot to do with the kind of workplace and the fit between intellectual challenge and intellectual capability of your personel.
Are you talking about salaried employees? If so I take issue with the statement "[T]he employer pays employees their salaries to keep working for 8 or 7 hours daily" Unless we are talking hourly employees, the employer is paying their salaries for them to perform a task or job, not put in hours.
I wrote a blog article on the topic a while ago that might be useful to you in answering this question: To summarize, as a hiring manager what I am looking for is this
One easy solution would be chat. Having to type to talk to a person sitting next to you might seem weird at first, but: I'm favoring quiet work environments, and when I had similar conflicts in the past, using chat for short conversations worked beautifully, and (almost) everyone was happy. In combination with headphones for the music lovers and taking longer conversations out of the room, everyone was happy;)
I would suspect the concern of retaliation has a lot to do with your particular circumstances. As a tech worker, I've had very little fear of this, and have posted my resume online numerous times in numerous channels. I've even talked to management I trusted about previous and even current job searches - because what I learn when searching can make the company I work for better. Different industries, and different locations and different corporate cultures all play a factor here. Things to consider regardless of industry:
Not really, no. If you're offering the position, you'd probably expect that the employed candidate would have to give two weeks notice after accepting the position while the unemployed candidate would likely be able to start immediately. And you'd expect that the candidate might get a counteroffer from their existing employer. But that doesn't really change the hiring process.
There is a second possibility. Management and HR are politely telling you that your teasing may be going over the line. They aren't ready to formally write anybody up, but this could be step one of the process. If this is the case, you have to make sure that you don't single out the new employee. You also will have to work on stopping the worst of the teasing, or the quantity of teasing. It may be nothing, but the fact that they came to you shows that there is at least some level of concern.
Here are some tips from what I routinely do: If you keep having degradation following all the above, consider how you prepare your sample. Do you have enough RNAse inhibitors in there? Do you use a RNA-conserving solution? Is your tissue sitting for a long time before the lysis? If your extracting RNA from cells, try using trizol or a similar reagent to preserve the RNA right from the lysis. If your getting the RNA from tissue samples, try snap freezing them in liquid nitrogen.
Did they try to centrifuge the tube when it got there to push all the liquid to the bottom? I know that especially when working with such little amounts that even shaking it up a little can disperse the contents all over the tube. We have received plasmids from other labs before. Generally speaking the plasmids are sent in Screw-cap microcentrifuge tubes inside of some sort of canister. This is then packaged in a little foam cooler with dry ice to keep everything cold.
A quite safe way of shipping plasmids is to put them on filter paper (see and send a letter. Much cheaper.
I don't have any literature to back this up but I doubt that it occurs (at least frequently). For example, imagine a simple three exon gene. Upon splicing to, would be excised as part of the intron lariat and subsequently degraded. So in order for exon 2 to be spliced to exon three you would need to either have splicing between and in the lariat or another copy of the pre-mRNA. This is typically called but it only occurs in specialized systems such as spliced-leader sequences in C. elegans.
By frame size, do you mean sliding window? I know that if you want to predict a secondary structure of a transmembrane protein, then your window size should be 20 amino acids (this is the average length of 1 transmembrane alpha helix spanning through the membrane). I found. It basically says that the window size depends on what kind of pattern you are looking for, but in general, 19 residues should be optimal. Also, secondary structure predictors rely on many features like hydrophobicity, missing coordinates in X-ray structures, B-factors, motifs, etc.
The sub-type is named for the broad classes of the hemagglutinin (HA) or neuraminidase (NA) surface proteins sticking through the viral envelope. There are 16 HA sub-types (designated H1 - H16) and 9 NA sub-types (designated N1 - N9). All of the possible combinations of these influenza A subtypes infect birds, but only those containing the H1, H2, H3, H5, H7 and H9 and the N1, N2 and N7 surface proteins infect humans, and of these, so far, only H1, H2, H3 and N1 and N2 do so to any extent. Read more:
The two letters represent the type of hemagglutinin (H) and neuraminidase (N) present on the viral surface. Those are the major surface proteins of the influenza virus and therefore crucial for the immune response. From The numbers represent different subtypes of the hemagglutinin and neuraminidase proteins.
Adding to the other answers posted: Hemagglutinin (HA or H) - Helps the virus enter the cell by binding to sialic acid receptors on cell membrane. It then unfolds in a lysosome and fuses the viral and lysosome membranes. Neuraminidase (NA or N) - Helps the virus exit the cell by cleaving the terminal sialic acid residues at the progeny virus release.
It is not only the immune system that prevents us from getting ill. Worrying much in my opinion won't make you catch a cold; rather, you can get problems with your cardiovascular system (arrhythmias, hypertension, angina pectoris) or limbic system (panic attacks, sweating attacks etc.). The connections are many; here are some possible ones: Speaking about connection between the nervous and immune system we must consider that:
I found that 13 worked best for Neural Nets and SVM performance of secondary structure information when I ran this in R.
I haven't tried Gibson Assembly myself, but I do know the developed a web-based tool - - for automatically generating primers for Gibson Assembly. You could try running your difficult sequences through their tool to see what it suggests for primers. It apparently gives you a "value for the Gibbs free energy of the worst case secondary structure of the primer."
I doubt there is really any direct limitation; the best test would be to check if the size matches, i.e. that 1kbp gene with 100 exons would rather have to have way too short introns. Quick search over NCBI Genes show even a, although all those edge cases seem to be some unclear siblings of titin which is just huge on its own.
The idea of epigentics is that there is more info in chromatin than just in the DNA sequence it contains and that this info can be altered in vivo. Thus, one cannot inherit epigenetic changes from a surrogate (which brings no new physical genetic material), but the fetus may develop some due to its interactions with her.
The protocol I used in my genetics lab course was alkaline lysis followed by ethanol precipitation. Nothing terribly toxic or requiring a fume hood (at least at the small volumes used). The more practical, reliable method is to use a miniprep kit (usually spin columns) from one of several suppliers which are fairly affordable at $1-2 per prep.
Agree with mbq - titan is the longest gene I know of and it has well over 100 exons. and are well characterized genetically and not predictions. titin is the champion exoner with 363 exons. Its only examples like this that can allow the gene predictors to run on as long as they do I think as the predictions are trimmed heuristically to resemble the known gene structures/lengths/junctions etc.
seems to suggest that the membranes of halophiles are stabilized by sodium ions and they rapidly denature at lower-salt conditions . The protein composition of the membrane was generally acidic, stabilized by all the Na +. As far as what the role of the halophile membrane is in sheltering the cell from the high ionic strength solution seems left unsaid.
In my experience, the P:C:I method will get you higher yields, and is a bit more simple (in steps and chems involved), but as @Mad Scientist has said, phenol use might be an issue. It depends on the age of your students.
Subtype is denoted using the HxNy notation for the variant of hemagglutinin and neuraminidase. Strain names are specified as: / / / , such as Many more strains can be found on the.
Using spin columns, my professor and I extracted ~30 plasmids from ~30 samples in a few hours. It's easy, cheap, and it yields good quality plasmid. My sample was quantified by UV spec and it was at about 200ng/ul.
As far as I know, that is fine. Thats the temperature that Amp is regularly stored at. I always do a negative control anyways to ensure that my antibiotics are still lethal. Just don't stick it in the microwave to make plates
Trees can not be distinguished from each other because every unrooted tree can be made rooted by adding a root and vice versa by deletion. If you mean dendrograms. the root is always the one node where the distance to each leaf is the same. But I don't know of an unrooted dendrogram.
In case of a drawn figure, either look for the a short stem to the left, or for an explicitly labelled outgroup. Trees derived from phylogenetic analyses are normally unrooted by default, you need to root them by either making an arbitrary (but hopefully informed) decision or by adding an outgroup.
According to literature, histone marks seem to be affecting splicing both directly and indirectly. The indirect regulation appears to be due to biophysical hindrance, where a certain chromatin structure would cause Pol-II slowdown, allowing the splicing machinery to do its job. The direct regulation seems to be essentially dependent on H3K36me3 and H3K4me1, marks that are recognized by MRG15, which in turn recruits the splicing regulator polypyrimidine tract-binding protein to splice sites. Ref:
I don't know about solutions, but we keep LB-Amp/Carb/Gm plates in 4°C for two-three weeks at a time, and the antibiotics seem to work.
It depends whether you call prions a life form, but prions do not make (direct) use of DNA to propagate themselves. They force other proteins into a misfolded protein state. Again, the question remains whether prions should be considered "alive".
When a fungal spore germinates in a suitable location, the growing mycelium will spread underground in all directions. In the ideal situation, the result is that the mycelium will become circular. Over time, the center of the mycelium will die out whereas the newly formed mycelium (underground) will develop the familiar mushrooms above ground and this will result in a fairy ring.
There are serious speculations that the origins of life were using RNAs both as enzymes and genetic information carrier. Later this informative RNAs evolved into a more stable and less reactive DNAs, enzymatic role was delegated to proteins and RNA only remained into most crucial parts of expression chain (mRNA and rybosome) and some regulation mechanisms.
In addition, the mycelia (the underground mass of hyphae which constitutes the bulk of the fungus) expand outwards because they decompose organic matter in soil as they go, leaving very little organic matter in the soil in the interior of the ring. My Campbell & Reece textbook tells me that they can expand outwards at about 30 cm/yr. Campbell, N.A., Reece, J.B. et al., Biology, 8th edition, Pearson, 2008
is very informative on this issue. they cite found negligible reduction in the the efficacy of non-beta-lactam antibiotics (kanamycin, chloramphenicol) over spans of 4 weeks or 60 days. Ampicillin loses about 10% activity at 4 weeks. In my lab, we only take care not to use LB/Amp plates that are older then 4 weeks, for LB/Km, we store them at 4 °C for more then a month, sealed in a plastic bag.
It depends of what you call endosymbiosis. In the sense of mutualistic interaction between host cell and intracellular organism, it also include Rhizobium bacteria and Fabaceae plants, some Cnidaria and algea in their cells, and even some micorrhizal fungi that invade into plants cells. But parasitic interactions are also sometimes call symbiosis, as symbiosis means just “living together” and the balance between profits and costs for each partner are sometimes difficult to measure and even changes in time. So in this wider meaning even Trichinella worm that live in mammal cell is an endosymbiont and endosymbiosis is very common.
You can also design a plasmid that has your 35mers and raise the bacteria with isotopic carbon and nitrogen C13 acetate and N15 ammonium sulfate will work with E coli in a minimal medium. this is not cheap, but the cheapest available sources of the isotopes can be used.
Studies of Deinococcus radiodurans, the most radioactively tolerant microorganism we know, show that it has many genes for DNA repair. In the case of the cockroach, I would assume that in addition to repairing genes, and maybe some antioxidants produced in the cells to quench free radicals produced by radiation, the fact that the roaches lay many, many eggs is also useful. If the radiation kills 99.99% of the roaches, you will still have some insects coming from the egg clutches. Selection is the insect's friend when you are a k-limited animal!
Sure it's feasible! Of course, there are lots of papers that I can't read even with a recent education, but you should be able to make a good dent by:
is an edited volume by Piet Herdewijn and M. Volkan Kisakürek. here is the book's description from the webpage:
consumes and reuses the nematocysts of jellyfish siphonophores. Perhaps not quite what you were looking for, as the animal doesn't simply concentrate the toxin, but actually co-opts entire stinging cells. Further to your mention of dinoflagellate toxins being concentrated by fish, I seem to recall reading something about some toxins being modified in vivo into more toxic derivatives, but cannot find any mention of it.
Drop by the, which is home to a bunch of autodidactic free thinkers like yourself. They always can suggest fun projects and learning resources. Also check out Nature's education resource ("A collaborative learning space for science")
I have had success with 1.5% agarose gels in TBE pre-stained with gelred. I use a 10,000x stock solution of gelred sold by. I visualize the gel on an old fotodyne UV transilluminator. After melting agarose in the appropriate volume of TBE in a microwave, I let it cool to about 50 C (I can touch the flask with the back of my hand without snatching it away) and then add the appropriate volume of stock gelred. For a 30 mL 1.5% agarose gel: This typically works for me. I run the gel in a 1x TBE buffer at around 120 volts.
I quite like the account given in, where alkaline hydrothermal vents (like " ") are theorized to have formed pre-biotic compartments with a proton gradient (i.e. an energy source) from which cells could have evolved.
Well. I'm excited that my first contribution to this site will include a study of strippers! I have read other, more detailed analysis of this (and similar) research that suggests strongly that our noses are heavily involved in all sorts of entirely sub-conscious decision making, as it pertains specifically to sexual selection.
I found a paper that describes a method to purify GFP fusion proteins using affinity chromatography:. Unfortunately I don't have access to the full text, so I can't check how exactly they elute the GFP fusion protein from the column. They describe a specific monoclonal antibody they use, there should be information on how to obtain it in the paper. Abstract:
It seems that yes, it is possible to increase the tolerance for lactose over time, and it has to do with the adaptation of microbiota. A simplistic explanation comes in the following article: In which the authors claim the following: This article makes reference to another one which supposedly explains the microbiota adaptation: Hill Mi. Bacterial adaptation to lactase deficiency. In: But unfortunately I could not find the full text. I hope you are luckier than me.
BLAST works by finding a perfect match between sequences of a length equal to this "word length" and then enlarging it in a standard way -- yet there will be no alignment without this perfectly matched word. So in your case, you must look for two 20bp sequences with no common 5bp sub-sequence; for instance: and
The existence of thymine in DNA instead of uracil is apparently due to evolution process which made DNA more stable. Thymine has greater resistance to photochemical mutation, making the genetic message more stable. A rough explanation of why thymine is more protected then uracil, can be found in the article which gives three major reasons for it to happen:
The organelle form in the same way they would if they were coded for by the host's genome, except in this case the virus uses its own genome to specify the type of organelle. The you link to indicates this. The "systems" in the quote are in part the organelle that it needs
I might as well give this as an answer: the closest analog to Fields for bacteriology that I'm aware of are the two Bergey's manuals:, and. They deal with taxonomy and identification of bacteria (and even cyanobacteria and archaeans), with some emphasis on the medically important classes.
Try perhaps lowering the level of expression of your construct. HEK cells are notorious for expressing large quantities of your transfected insert. Do you have it under a CMV promoter? Try a milder one, such as an ubiquitin promoter or similar or, even better, a doxycyclin-inducible system so you can manage the expression levels through the dox concentration/time of induction.
Bioluminescence, in particular in marine organisms, has also been linked to way to get rid of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In fact, luciferases catalyse the photogenic oxydation of luciferins. In , the authors propose that this system's function was primarily for antioxydation, while in deep seas, where the water is oxygen-poor, the lower selective pressure toward antioxydation would have given rise to light emitting functions in specialized organs.
It's hard to understand the question, but in any immunocytochemical staining such as the above, you have two different types of reactions: The fact that is an indirect immunostaining implies that you have a non-conjugated primary antibody against laminin and a secondary antibody against the Fc part of immunoglobulins of the species in which the first antibody was raised. This secondary antibody will be conjugated with HRP (horseradish peroxidase, the enzyme responsible of generating the peroxides that will oxidize the DAB). For a more complete reference of immunocytochemical stainings, you can read:
Generally speaking you sequence the genome and then search for clues. There are usually specific sequences preceding a gene that help the translational equipment know "hello this is where we begin" as well as regions where proteins can bind that are used to enhance or inhibit translation of the gene. Computers can be programmed to search through the sequence and bring up possible candidates for people to look at more closely.
There are various software in which you can enter your sequence (let's say the whole genome sequence) and it can identify for you the putative open reading frames (ORFs), i.e. the start codons and the stop codons. Then, by using these putative genes, you can do a sequence alignment by using BLAST and then, based on the scores you can confirm that those are really ORFs. As this being the statistical approach, you can then verify your results in the wet lab, like agrimaldi suggested.
tl;dr: In the Human Genome Project, they used the DNA of four people (though one male provided >70% of DNA. The Celera genome was compiled from five people. Source:
have shown that plants have some of the same mechanosensitive ion channels that E. coli does. The work was on the roots of Arabidopsis and not the plant you are investigating, but the mechanism could be similar. It would not seem that vibration plays a role, as it the plant seems responsive to the touch of the human rather than his/her approach to the leaf. This could rule out air currents as a mechanism (but J.M. has noted in the comments that they do fold up when you blow on them).
This one is not precisely molecular and cell biology, but rather systems biology. It might help you as some kind of introduction, though: Also, if you are really really new to the subject, you can probably use "Molecular and Cell Biology for Dummies".
provides very interesting material, and not only on biology. You may be interested in seeing the video lectures from some of the Introductory biology courses, such as, or. There is, however, much more, check out the index of the.
MIT's OCW is weak when it comes to biology videos. UC Berkeley has some good video content for molecular and cell biology. UCSD, if I recall correctly, has had some pretty good life science lectures available online to the public, as well. Possibly also UCLA. is your friend here. Unfortunately, to really take advantage of it, you need to download iTunes -- but it's worth it. The last time I looked, there was more there than I could possibly watch, and that was 4 years ago.
I think @mbq has covered the frequency question better than I can. There is at least one modern example of this kind of new organelle formation. Aphids have a deep, intracellular endosymbiont Buchnera involving some genome transfer that has developed in the last 200 million years. There are many articles about this topic (eg:), and it was a little controversial 15 years ago. Now, it's largely accepted that this is a modern development of endosymbiosis, and a confirmation of the theory.
The Manual of Clinical Microbiology from ASM is the bible we use in our Micro lab. It's often our first reference. There are a lot of other useful books in the ASM eStore.
I found two nice review papers focused of epigenetics and human disease, one from, and one from. But perhaps you are looking more for something like? I also found this article in the BBC news: References:
Since tubes can be crushed in the mail, the safest way to ship plasmids is to drip a few uL into a filter paper, and then wrap it up to seal it with parafilm, and fill out a detailed form about its content. Good luck.
Some plants have mitochondrial pathways that produce heat. That's why skunk cabbage can be seen poking outing of the snow in late winter/early spring. Here's a review:
For recombinant Taq polymerase, industrial-scale production produces liters of highly concentrated enzyme in a single run. It comes in such small, dilute quantities when sold that only a few preps a year would be necessary to satisfy research lab demand. I don't know the Thermus aquaticus protocol, but considering the achievements in yield for E. coli, and the between the two enzymes, I'd imagine that yields are similar there. That would say to me that nobody's farming hot springs for T. aquaticus.
I understand that Robin Holliday was the first to discuss the possible role of DNA methylation in the control of Gene expression. In his paper " " he presents what is one of the first modern formulations of what we now regard as epigenetics. The term "epigenetics" itself was coined by Conrad Waddington although this predated our modern understanding of heredity. Holliday, R., The inheritance of epigenetic defects, 1987, Science, 238, 4824
Antibodies for WB and for IF have fundamentally different requirements for the epitope structure. Antibodies for WB recognize denatured structures extended by SDS treatment. Antibodies for IF often will need to recognize a native-like structure. Depending on the supplier, some will have lots of antibodies for IF. I suggest looking around some more.
Yes, respiration is exothermic and plants (like all living things) respire. I think the effect of covering the plant has to more to do with reducing sensible heat loss, e.g. direct transfer of heat from plant to air) rather than latent heat loss (through evaporation). The cover is effectively reducing the mixing of the air near the plant (and closer to the temperature of the surface of the earth) with the free atmosphere (closer to the temperature reported by the weatherman)
You are correct to be a little concerned, especially with mitochondrial genomes (where non-standard genetic codes are more prevalent). In addition to the use of non-standard codes you should also consider RNA editing (changed codons or deleted/inserted nucleotides to shift reading frames) and special amino acids (e.g., selenocysteine). All together, the emphasis on DNA sequence to infer protein structure is safe in the bulk of cases, but don't be surprised by differences (for particular genes or for whole organisms).
There are few single papers that really drive the field by themselves, epigenetics has been a long slow progression (although more recently the definition has been muddied and started to include non-epigenetic modes of gene regulation). A pretty good review of a lot of research, including a more circumspect discussion about what epigenetics is can be found in Youngson and Whitelaw's Annual Review .
No, the beats originating outside of the sinoatrial node are not considered for pNN50. Moreover, this metric cannot be applied to the rhythm featuring any type of ectopic or non-sinoatrial activity. NN50 has its name from an acronym "normal-to-normal", this acronym is used instead of RR ("from R to R") to emphasize that only the normal, e.g. sinoatrial beats.
The fastest I know of is the heat shock locus in Drosophila. The transcription factor (HSF) accumulates within about 30 seconds, and RNA Polymerase can be seen to start accumulating within 3 minutes. Katie L. Zobeck, Martin S. Buckley, Warren R. Zipfel, John T. Lis. 2010.. Molecular Cell 40: 965-975
I think the above values are wrong. shows that most introns are less than about 10 kb (and personal experience in Drosophila confirms that - I've rarely seen an intron bigger than about 5 kb). There are some very large ones, but since it's nearly impossible to detect the splicing reaction, particularly if they're very large, it's not clear whether they are spliced as one BIG intron or are instead recursively spliced (in little steps, as in). I think its safe to say that we don't know how long the biggest introns can be.
This is not my field so I'm risking a wrong/incomplete answer here, but I'd say that the critical difference is the almost complete occurrence of double-stranded DNA that precludes the formation of the tertiary structures in single-stranded RNA, rather than the 2'OH difference. In fact, and following the link you posted, the authors even comment in the introduction that: I did not follow the citation 9, but they seem to answer your question with that phrase. In essence, it probably does not have a major implication.
Probably they want something like from: In my opinion, the question is not exact if they want the above thing. It should have been: What is the Giemsa staining of chromosomes morphologically? if the above thing correct. It was the first medical biology course so answer should be from it.
I found this that appears to be compatible with biological samples. Rather than buying the kit you may also be able to imitate / modify their to do the assay with your super natant.
Giemsa is not a particular methid to stain malaria or any other parasite. It stains DNA. As such, it can be used to stain any DNA-containing organism, or, in other words, any known cell. Regarding its particular use in chromosomal banding, you can refer to many online resources, such as:
From your comments it doesn't seem like you are adverse to writing some custom scripts so one option would be to take advantage of the NCBI Structure database. You can filter it by and then download the results as a text file / XML. If you need access to the raw PDB data you could then download the PDB archive and examine the ones in your filtered list.
I am not sure if I understand your question correct. What I can see here is a clear ST depression, that might be indicative of myocardial ischemia/infarction. The underlying mechanism is the shortage of oxygen in myocytes leading to elevation of resting potential and slowing of the depolarization -- this accounts for the elevated baseline after T. I am not at all an ECG expert, but I have seen the misplaces T-P segment many times while at medical school. It wasn't indicative for diagnosis, whereas all other segments were. So, why are you worrying about this segment?
6405 proteins mapping to 5220 genes, according to Ensembl. In Ensembl's, you can select the PDB ID as external reference. Export the results and count the unique proteins/genes that have a PDB ID.
The Nautilus eye used to be (still is?) a "problem" and became a poster boy for creationist arguments. It has a pin-hole camera eye, which is the highest resolution non-lens eye. However, I understand that several genera arose during the Cambrian and the existing species haven't changed much since. So, the Nautilus saw fit to develop a sophisticated but non-optimal eye several hundred million years ago (other cephalopods have much better vision), but not develop it further. This may hard to explain in evolutionary terms, although I note that they probably hunt via.
It's just so much more convenient to have the enzymes ready without having to thaw them. The main reason you freeze enzymes is to keep them active, if you figure out a buffer that keeps them unfrozen without compromising activity, that is a huge increase in convenience. Not having to thaw the enzymes before use saves a lot of time, if you can manage to keep the enzymes active in those non-freezing conditions that is a clear advantage. Glycerol also, and multiple freeze and thaw cycles can negatively affect enzyme activity for some enzymes.
I suspect the answer would definitely include a parameter that would state how 'diverse' the reproducing population is to begin with - including how heterozygous each individual is (versus inbred); as well as across individuals - i.e. how different these individuals are from one another.
We have gotten into similar situations when other labs have sent us plasmids (or when we have taken out ancient tubes out from storage boxes at -20), and have since adopted the filter paper method. Another point to note is that you can just add, say, 10 μL of water to the "empty" tube (Mac) and use 1 μL for a transformation. It has always worked for us. DNA is seemingly invisible!
The smell of dry erase markers come from the chemicals ethanol, butanol and isopropyl alcohol. Like all chemicals inhaled through the nose, they bind to the Receptor neurons in the located in the back of the nose. The neurons interpret the chemicals using a 'lock-and-key' model but the specific way its coded and perceived in humans is still being researched and the process is not completely understood.
The short answer is that corn genome is large and has a huge amount of duplication events. Around 80% of the genome are repeated. It's hard to assemble genomes with large amount of duplications because our sequencing technology, practically, at best can give ~500 base pairs. Figuring out the ordering of duplicated regions relies on scaffold sequences or comparative assembly to rice genome.
covers some of the usual advantages (rest/regeneration). One of the research papers they mentioned (they linked to press release) was by John E. Zimmerman, Ph.D.; Trends Neurosci. 2008 July; 31: 371–376. Published online 2008 June 5. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.001; NIHMSID: NIHMS230885. To quote from the press release:
Cat claws are growing all the time, like horse hooves, or human nails. However, cats and horses usually use their claws/hooves, so they get shortened through mechanical action. (that's why cats will want to scratch everywhere), or if has supernumerary toes that don't normally touch the ground. Similarly, cattle that doesn't get to move will suffer from hoof overgrowth, which appears to be very uncomfortable to the animal. Consequently, if you were to use your fingernails more often for digging and scratching, you wouldn't have to trim them all the time.
Apart from tips already mentioned, change your gloves every now and then. Also, in my experience (with the Qiagen kit), keeping samples on ice shouldn't make much of a difference.
First of all, the nature of penetrance is almost entirely unknown. Likely it's a combination of epistasis and gene interactions, induced gene regulatory pathways, developmental noise, and other factors. Epigenetics (imprinting, etc) may have little to do with penetrance, while chromatin structure may be a consequence of other things (most now regard histone modifications, etc, as consequence of transcription rather than heritable regulatory mechanism). Currently, the field of epigenetics is undergoing a (long-overdue) reassessment. Until that happens, anyone who wants to make claims of "epigenetics" is free to, so spurious claims are rampant.
You could try SYTO Orange. Unlike SYTOX, which is a fixed-cell marker, SYTO works with both live and fixed cells.
To complement on nico's answer (I don't have enough rep to comment), TRP channels seems to be also sensitive to increment or decrement of temperature as reported recently in a paper by Gallio et al. Probably that channels have incomplete adaptative behavior that make them sensitive both to increment and absolute temperature values. [1]
How about species actively changing the factors that play a role in the selection process? Humans are a species that have heavily modified this process. In the western world, we have gone away from selection by survival skills and genetic fitness to move to a social selection, where genome is secondary to social skills and adaptation to fashion, which are acquired skills.
Bacteria such as E. coli are known to increase their mutation rate (by switching to a more error prone polymerase among other things) when under stress. This can mean being placed in a medium where it's not adapted to grow or when treated with antibiotics .
Yes. Blood will continue to circulate (as long as you're alive and your heart is beating), so will eventually come in contact with your lungs. Once there, the gasses (O2, CO2) will cross out into the lung and be exhaled. All diffusion is driven down a concentration gradient.
The "change in reproduction age" you mention is one major aspect of life history evolution. A massive literature exists on this topic, including several books: e.g., The evolution of life histories: Theory and analysis (Roff, 1992) and The evolution of life histories (Stearns, 1992). Reznick and various colleagues have carried out extensive studies of experimental life history evolution in Trinidadian guppies going back ~30 years. For example: Life history evolution has also been documented in response to human pressures. Fisheries stocks are evolving in response to overfishing. For example:
Species have been observed in controlled experiments to use different sources of energy, for instance axenic E. coli cultures picking up citrate metabolism in. They have also shown that mutations to the mutator gene mutT can accelerate the process of evolution, though it's evolution directed by fitness in a very specific setting.
The project has a browse-able tree of all major taxa, but not necessarily all species. You can start at the. Tree of life uses modern rather than more traditional Kingdom-Phylum-Class-etc. Part of the problem that you will run into is that common names differ across regions/countries/languages. This is the point of species binomials. They are language-invariant.
Once could argue that we die because it is advantageous to get rid of mature individuals once they have reproduced. Because mature individuals have no more offspring to convey beneficial genes, those offspring which will benefit from knocking off their ancestors will have an evolutionary advantage.
Naturally, ripe orange skins are usually green-yellow. In colder climates, they will turn orange over winter, since in the cold the chlorophyll will start degrading and stop masking out yellow/orange carotenoids in the skin. If the fruit is picked in fall (and not let ripen or degreened) they will have green color., which is a natural plant hormone, is sometimes used to give them more uniform, orange color (degreening). Also, some oranges cultivated in the US are dyed with to make their peels orange.
Schwann cells seem to be the most common type of glial cells outside of CNS, and the myelinating Schwann cells are the only known source of myelin in PNS. Other types of neuroglia in PNS, for example and do not seem to take part in myelination, neither in CNS nor in PNS.
A list of dyes is available and a list of dyes specific to nucleic acids is available. I think you have two choices the SYBR Gold nucleic acid gel stain which can be detected under UV light (not sure if it can be used with polyacrylamide gels). Your other option which can be used with polyacrylamide gels is the SYBR Green II RNA gel stain , this stain can be detected with UV light post-electrophoresis. It states RNA in the name but it can also be used for ssDNA. Hope this helps
There are two reasons for this: Explanation found. So there's no particular advantage to getting a runny nose; it's just a normal reaction occurring in extreme conditions.
I believe it is because of a trade off between absorbing a wide range of photons and not absorbing too much heat. Certainly this is a reason why leaves are not black - the enzymes in photosynthesis as it stands would be denatured by the excess heat that would be gained. This may go some of the way towards explaining why green is reflected rather than red as you suggested - reflecting away a higher energy colour reduces the amount of thermal energy gained by the leaves.
, O 2 − is created by the immune system in (including neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells, and mast cells) which use NADPH oxidase to produce it from O 2 for use against invading microorganisms. However, under normal conditions, the mitochondrial electron transport chain is a major source of O 2 −, converting up to perhaps 5% of O 2 to superoxide. [1] As a side note, there are two sides to this coin. While this is a useful tool against microorganisms, the formation of the reactive oxygen species has been incriminated in autoimmune reactions and diabetes (type 1). [2]
I would think GelRed or GelGreen would be an option too. They claim to be more sensitive than EtBr and certainly less toxic (even moreso than SYBR Green). I haven't personally used them against such a small bp product though. GelRed has basically the same excitation/emission wavelengths as EtBr so no equipment change is needed.
I am very suprised nobody mentioned the field of DNA-computing. It is proofen by Leonard Adleman and Richard Lipton that you can compute with DNA molecules. In the article of Adleman they present an experiment to solve an instance of the Traveling-Salesman-Problem. Because this problem is in NP one can say that the DNA is turing-complete.
AbCam suggests HeLa cells as positive controls for their. They provide the following pictures of HeLa cells labeled with their antibody: (The image of the right is treated with synthesized peptide.) According to, GLP1R is also expressed in pancreatic beta cells and the brain.
It would also be logical to note that a chewed tablet increases its surface-area-to-volume ratio for absorption relative to an intact tablet, for any absorptive tissue.
I would like to add a on Synthetic Biology by, who introduces the open source synthetic biology field, compares it to computing, and gives an overview of what are its applications, like the creation of the first synthetic organism. I also stumbled upon a from the famous physicist, who shares his vision about the world in 2030, when synthetic biology will change every-day-life. Enjoy!
Well, Erickson et al attribute the increase in brain volume in the aerobic exercise group to (BDNF). Specifically : with the caveat:
If the organism uses an alternative code, the predicted protein sequences would always include the same type of amino acid substitution errors. This pattern should become apparent when you compare the proteins to other organisms. In reality, the most common alternative code uses UGA for tryptophan instead of the usual stop. If you make the mistake of using the standard code for these genomes, the predicted genes would become highly fragmented so it is almost impossible not to notice.
I found a very nice paper:, which covers most factors that determine protein expression. I post parts of it, because I am sure it will be useful to some of you. For more information, please read the whole paper. I also recommend reading.
The initiation of gut flora come from maternal cervical and vaginal flora (Bezirtzoglou, 1997). These predominantly include facultative anaerobes (e.g., Staphylococcus, Enterobacteriaceae and Streptococcus ). Birth by caesarean section can cause problems because these bacteria are not passed on in the usual manner. Vael et al. found an association between early gut flora and obesity later in life suggesting that monitoring or alterations of gut flora might be effective in reducing rates of obesity.
Bacteria usually gain resistance mechanisms through horizontal gene transfer (such as conjugation and phage infection). The four main mechanisms in which bacteria elude antibiotics are: Wikipedia has a pretty extensive and comprehensive article on antibiotic resistance. There's also a good list of references.
They don't have to -- there are times in life of a bacteria (cell division, hunger, mutations, attacks of lysozyme and other enzymes, cell lysis) when any possible antigen gets less or more exposed. About escaping phagocitosis, there are numerous strategies to achieve it -- from forming a large slime-covered colony, through killing or disabling phagocytes up to stopping digestion, escaping the phagocyte back to the environment or even living inside it ( Listeria monocytogenes is a prime example -- it can even directly move from one cell to another). EDIT: is a nice overview.
Further to LanceLafontaine's answer I'd just like to mention that, although as he mentioned viruses interact with DNA replication in different ways, DNA replication in itself is the same process in both plant and animal cells. For example, a human cheek cell and a potato root cell replicate their DNA in the same way (as both are eukaryotic cells - cells with internal membrane bound organelle): see for more information.
You've gotten some decent answers for how antibiotic resistance arises, so I thought I'd touch on this a bit. There's three major thrusts to anti-resistance research:
Because of the retrotransposon ability of Alu and other interspersed elements, insertion into parts of the genome can contribute to genetic diversity among the population. This can be analogous to random point mutations accumulated throughout a lifetime. Some of these mutations can be beneficial and increase the overall fitness of the organism. However, many of these mutations and random insertions are harmful especially when elements insert themselves into essential genes or tumor suppressor genes (which leads to cancer).
I don't know very many books that might be referred to as the Grand History of Biology or anything like that. That's.a big topic. Really big. How about some suggestions for good Biology/Medical History books accessible to lay people: Finally, I believe James Watson wrote a somewhat popular science-oriented account of the discovery of DNA, which would no doubt be interesting, though likely somewhat skewed in favor of his own awesomeness.
It doesn't have very many reviews, but sounds like it's perfect. Flipping through the first chapter in the preview, it doesn't seem overly technical in any way, so secondary school-level knowledge is probably enough. If your associates have absolutely no biology experience, perhaps a run through a popular press book would provide all of the background necessary.
Some that just come to mind, in random order: One cannot skip reading: And, obviously: And, for those interested in the evolution of the brain (and its quirks): Not very DNA/evolution-oriented, but wonderful science books nonetheless:
I just came across. There is one very positive and one very negative review. I haven't read the book myself, but it looks that it is exactly what I was looking for: the table of content includes topics like small history overview, genetic engineering, gene therapy, pharmacogenomics, etc. It might be even useful for people with biology background. Has anyone heard about this book?
A fantastic book that covers the evolution of modern science since the Renaissance (including a great deal of biology) is by John Gribbin. I found that by focusing on the people doing the science in the context of the society in which they lived, I got a much better understanding for why early scientists thought the way they did and researched the questions that they did. Here's the blurb from the publisher:
The conductance velocity in the unmyelinated axon has been calculated and measured to be proportional to the square root of the axon diameter (see for example:). Since the giant axon is, well, giant, it conducts much faster than others. AFAIK, all other large neurons studied are myelinated. Maybe try to find bigger squids!;)
A good recollection of the early days of micro and molecular biology is It covers the early use of e. coli, the discovery of phage, transcriptional elements and the impact that DNA structure had. It's very comprehensive and really useful if you are doing molecular biology today.
Evolution has no aim, you seem to be repeating a caricature of what the theory of evolution really says. Evolution works by a mechanism where pressures on a population select for the traits that are best suited for that environment. If there are no pressures on a population, then the selection of specific traits will be slowed down, as all members of the population have an equal chance at reproducing. Now to wax a bit philosophical on the issue.:: Or as a particularly brilliant writer that goes by the name of said: I hope that clears it up for you.
There are several ways splicing can occur, which depends on the RNA molecule to be spliced and the catalyst that performs the splicing: References:
The pith (medulla) forms part of the of a plant, and specifically it is the ground tissue which lies interior to a plants vascular tissues (xylem, phloem etc.) The ground tissue system is responsible for much of a plants metabolic functioning, and contains various specialized cell types which aid in photosynthesis and storage of photosynthesis products. The pith is made from parenchyma cells.
From the article you linked: They reference these two works. The first is a 1988 review from Popp et al. : - Experientia 44:543–600. (sorry, I cannot find the link to a full text.) is the biophysicist who first developed the. The second work they reference is by the same first author: - Kobayashi M, et al. Finally, a reveals various other articles by different authors studying different species.
There is no single "ideal amount" of RNA. I would suggest you to do a titration curve to determine the best amount for your specific assay. The band at 100 bp could be a non-specific amplification. You could try to increase slightly the annealing temp to see if that removes (or reduces) the lower band. Alternatively, you can consider a different primer set or even a nested PCR. Also, it is still possible that you may look at a splicing alternative in that band. Do your primers span more than one exon?
The normal results of an attempt to assemble proteins with mixed chiral amino acids is a protein that fails to fold. The general assumption due to this result is a choice has to be made very early on to use all right-handed or all left-handed amino acids. There doesn't seem to be any particular reason to choose one way over the other except for prevalence.
From a more geology-oriented perspective: Robert M Hazen - Genesis: The Scientific Quest for Life's Origins Noam Lahav - Biogenesis: Theories of Life's Origin J William Schopf - Cradle of Life I have watched Hazen's nice "Origins of Life" DVD/Video Course. There he says that the Miller-Urey stuff has gotten less popular. Their atmosphere contains too much Nitrogen, Hydrogen and focuses on the water surface and the open water body. More recent research points to a more CO 2 -rich atmosphere, and that life evolved deeper in hot water at the bottom of the ocean.
Perhaps what your teacher meant was not so much a difference in Leydig cell morphology, but in interstitial tissue morphology, ie. tissue which occupies the space in between seminiferous tubules. Leydig cells are its most interesting component, others being small blood vessels (a lot of them), nerves and connective tissue (mostly fibroblasts, mastocytes, lymphocytes and macrophages). In different species interstitial tissue looks differently, for example: I found all this in some old lecture notes; I couldn't dig up any sensible reference, though.
In some protocols for setting up primary cultures (for example from mouse bone marrow or rat endometrium), there is a step that requires pushing cell suspension through a large needle to get rid of clumps. Of course, this carries a high risk of damaging the cells, so sometimes collagenase is used instead. It might also be helpful to wash your cells with PBS without ions before passaging and use tripsin with EDTA. That should get rid of at least some calcium from the plate, so that action of adhesion proteins would be inhibited.
The process of long-term depression (LTD) was first discovered in the cerebellum by Ito et al. in 1982: Ito M, Kano M. Neurosci Lett. 1982;33:253-8 Ito M, Sakurai M and Tongroach P.. Journal of Physiology 1982; 324: 113–134. Check this.
Yes, they can. An example of a man-made chemical byproduct affecting hormone signaling is. There is a vast body of evidence linking BPA to all manners of hormonal misregulation. It would be impossible to try and enumerate all of the studies, and specific mechanisms or the extent of the signaling pathways impacted by BPA have yet to be clarified, however you can have a look to the huge amount of papers on the matter that you can.
You might be interested in the INK4A locus (chromosome 9p), encoding both p19 and p16 genes, very close to p15. You can read a description. All three proteins are known experimentally to exist. Now, whether these are two different genes or the same gene with alternative splicing and start sites leading to different reading frames it's up to discussion. The point is that p19 and p16 share DNA coding sequence but not protein sequence nor function.
The vascular system is different in monocots and dicots. In dicots the vascular tissues are arranged in concentric circles; one of these rings is meristematic cells (undifferentiated cells that can differentiate into any cell type). This ring of meristem tissue is called the vascular cambium and is where secondary growth occurs - xylem grows inwards and phloem grows outwards. Whereas: For palms specifically: Parenchyma cells are type of cells found in plant ground tissue, which makes up the bulk of plant mass.
I find that I only get clumps (with HeLa and similar cell types) if I leave them in Tryple too long. Generally I leave them in room-temp (not hot) Tryple for ~8 minutes, then I angle the dish, lid off, so that I can see the "sheen" of cells on the dish (this happens in the hood, of course). Then I blast the sheen with Tryple using a 1000ul pipetter, which de-adheres the cells. These are generally much less clumped than if I let the Tryple de-adhere the cells.
Just a quick answer: No, there is no way to kill all bacteria in your body once they are there. The only way to keep a person sterile is to prevent any bacteria entering the guts during and all time after the birth. Look for gnotobiology and gnotobionts to learn more about these organisms (including humans). Here are some reasons why:
As Rory explained, internal body temperature needs to be highly regulated. Sweating is the main built in mechanism for removing excess heat from the human body. According to my biology book, in humid conditions humans cannot survive in heats of above around 45C, but in a dry environment can survive in heats of over 100C just through sweating.
If your goal is to avoid regulatory elements, I would not believe any prediction program, since new regulatory elements are found every day. The best way would be empirical and just clone and infect with a mutated 3'UTR and see if your gene's regulation is perturbed. You could at least swap the entire 3'UTR with that from another gene to see if there are even any gene regulatory elements in the 3'UTR.
I believe there are light sensors in the skin for infrared light (heat), that convey that information back to the brain from the skin. This is kind of light detection, but it is not direct detection like the rhodopsins in the eye. By the way, without passing information onto neurons, cells probably have a lot of sensors they may use to respond to their local environment. This recent article talks about how. so its quite possible that the conventional light detecting genes (rhodopsins) would be found in skin cells, but they may not convey information to neurons.
You're right: Medina, M., A. G. Collins, J. W. Taylor, J. W. Valentine, J. H. Lipps, L. A. Amaral Zettler and M. L. Sogin . "Phylogeny of Opisthokonta and the evolution of multicellularity and complexity in Fungi and Metazoa." International Journal of Astrobiology 2: 203-211. Update:, here's an excerpt:
Take a look at my website which has a section called Images. There are more than 13 sites listed which have hundreds of SEM images posted
I found a couple of methods using M13 phage growing on E coli: You could easily adapt these protocols to grow on 13C, 15N-containing medium. Then you could use a and purify your fragment through a PA gel. (up to 50 mg of DNA) will cost you $546 (in the US, before any quote). Disclaimer: I've never done any of this!
The less antigens a woman (or in fact a female of any species close enough to humans for this phenomenon) has, the higher are the risks of triggering an immune reaction during her pregnancy, if the child has those antigens. The is probably the most common case of this problem. One could thus assume that in populations that are genetically diverse in respect to blood groups, absence of antigens has negative effects on reproduction (unless countered by medicine).
These study whether there is a relationship between the ABO blood type of a person and his/her attractiveness to mosquitoes. It was found that people with type O blood are more likely to be bitten than people with other blood types. Additionally, the relationship between blood type and the secretion of oligosaccharides from the skin had any effect on attractiveness to mosquitoes. It was found that type O secretors are very attractive to mosquitoes compared to type O nonsecretors and type A nonsecretors. On the flip side,.
Prions are fairly resistant to traditional method of sterilization. Citing from: The same paper also lists several effective and ineffective methods for sterilization (efficient method have > 3log10 reduction in prion content within 1 hour) I am not going to list them all here but you can see Table 2 in the paper. Just to answer your specific question about oxydation, certain oxydising agents are effective, others are not. Similarly certain autoclaving (=sterilising with heat) procedures are fine and others are not. Another interesting paper
I am not sure I understand your question. According to the article you mention the proteins in teardrops kill the bacteria which are invading the eye (e.g. also present in the teardrops): EDIT: These proteins are enzymes called. Those are free-flowing proteins of the human tears. These proteins are actively produces in the lacrimal glands and actively into the.
To address your list: But, I think the key to a good answer lies here: I would check how often the genes are described in the literature. The from NCBI may be a good starting point, because these are snippets from the literature that are curated and shown on the NCBI Gene pages. E.g. has >3800 of these. The length of the summary could also be a good proxy. (Or, the length of the Wikipedia page?)
Try to pass the matrix as a String containing 18 floats separated by commas, e.g. like seems to return a tuple, so you'll have to convert that to a String if you want to pass the same position to. I tried it in Pymol 1.3 on the command line (not in a script though) and it seemed to work.
It's a spatial constraint. As the DNA is replicated, the two resulting chromatids are kept stuck together by cohesin proteins. The DNA sequence that corresponds to the centromere then coalesces the kinetochore. It seems that the DNA-protein interactions at the centromeres creates a along the chromosome. Since the two chromatids have their kinetochores pointing in opposite directions, when a spindle microtubule attaches to the kinetochore, it is nearly impossible for another microtubule from the same spindle to attach to the opposing kinetochore.
If you search clinicaltrials.gov (maintained by the NIH) for "resveratrol", you'll find, many of them ongoing or not yet started. A states in the abstract:
It's worth noting that earlier this month a large body of resveratrol research was retracted: 's coverage has been pretty thorough and includes comments and citations:
It is mainly determined by the OCA2 gene, but it also likely involves several other genes, including TYR, TYRP1, HERC2, and several others. To complicate things further, it is not a "mutant/wild type" trait, but multiple normal alleles can be found in the population, and it is believed that the sum of these single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) determine the final phenotype. I took the info from a and a more recent paper from
There are many papers suggesting a link between AMPK (the major cellular sensor of the AMP/ATP ratio) and lifespan. As with most of these sorts of experiments, I think it is currently unclear precisely what the mechanism for this is, but AMPK regulates TORC1 and autophagy, both of which are also important for lifespan regulation. Here is a PubMed link to.
The cheapest way to make that large quantity of DNA without the need of the whole oligomer being label would be to produce 34 nucleotides by chemical synthesis. The 35 nucleotide can be labeled and ligated to the remaining strands. This should reduce the costs of producing the oligomer since the most expensive stage, the labeling is limited to just the final nucleotide.
The ability to drink milk by the inheritance of lactase persistence via a single allele change. Sociology and genetic studies have shown that the immigration of a few lactose tolerant people into large non-lactose tolerant populations, the lactase persistence gene quickly spreads through the population, a sign of a dominant mutation and survival of the fittest at work. Not in the mood to dissect the papers but here are a few commentaries:
We have the (HARs) which are some of the most rapidly evolving RNA genes elements. While heavily conserved in vertebrates, they go haywire in humans and are linked with neurodevelopment. Thanks to @Nico, the following paper compares the human genome with that of the chimp and identifies genetic regions that show accelerated evolution. The most extreme, is expressed mainly in neuron cells which hints at its important role in human development.
The ability to walk on two legs was hugely significant in human evolutionary development. This led to the hands being freed up to develop into precision tools rather than having to be durable for walking on rough terrain. Increased dexterity in the hands led in part to the leap forward in human development. ~ (Prof. Robert Winston - 1998
The version for the regulation of ATP involves a feedback loop with phosphofructokinase (PFK). The relative concentrations of ADP and ATP are characteristic of the energy state of the cell. If the cell is using energy, then there will be an excess of ADP. If not, then ATP. ATP is an inhibitor of PFK, which in turn slows glycolysis (thus reducing the production of new ATP). In contrast, ADP is an allosteric activator of PFK, which in turn speeds up glycolysis (thus increasing the production of ATP).
In a nutshell: in order to pass through the blood-brain barrier (BBB) the substance has to mimick soee properties of the substances that are allowed to pass through. There are different types of "transporters" -- integral proteins going through the cell membranes and accounting for the active transport of the substances they can actively bind to. Smaller molecules of drugs can use solute carrier transporter (SLC), whereas bigger molecules (oligo- and polymeres) would use the receptor-mediated transporter (RMT). There is on this topic published by ScienceDaily. Here is the quote:
Not necessarily! For instance, think of: the plant detects the presence of light and uses it to grow towards the light, but that's a very simple process regulated by auxins. Or the shown by, a single-celled protist, which reorients its entire body towards a light source. Really simple vision (is there a light, and if so, where is it?) can help organisms absorb more energy than rivals, giving them an evolutionary advantage.
You could try other visual differences, like make what you're interested in ball-and-stick, and everything else wireframe, like in this example:.. Because, from: It looks from this like you only get to choose Hue (color_map_rotation) and not Saturation or Lightness, even with the script interface. However,
there is some evidence that the female reproductive system may also do some gender based selection and skew the chances of one or another outcome depending upon environment, if I recall the snake work correctly. I found a recent review: It isn't so easily predictable what the outcome is for a given environmental set of conditions. To me it is not surprising since sperm competition and selection in the oviducts is common to nearly all animals.
is the type of cell division responsible for the diversification of genetic material among egg and sperm cells. The diversity comes primarily from (Prophase I) and the cell divisions (Telophase I & II) later on in the process. Further detail of the precise phases can be found in. [picture from
I think we can attribute this to sheer probability. The human genome contains around 3 billion base pairs. When you consider recombination from chromosomal crossover that occurs in germ line cells, there is an astronomically huge number of possible unique combinations that can be made. Of course, males generate many many sperm, so some of these are bound to be similar. But the number of sperm produced by any individual doesn't come anywhere close to the number of possible unique sperm that he could produce.
As to the early evolution of mammalian hair, hypothesized that the primitive function for hair was not thermoregulatory, but rather for tactile sensation ( contra the hypotheses of Spearman and Maderson). Rowe et al. say: So the developmental argument is in favor of tactile sensation.
show a correlation between facial phenotypes and autism spectrum disorders (ASD) in a sample of 8-12 year old boys. They studied two groups of boys, 65 that had been diagnosed with ASD and 41 who had not. They collected 3D images of the faces and looked for similar patterns among the two groups. They found a significant association between some phenotypes and ASD. But, as with most studies, the results are complex; there a distinct sub-groups within the ASD group. Keep in mind that this is an association study -- no causation is shown.
The energy consumption doesn't vary that much between resting and performing tasks, as discussed in a: Techniques like fMRI measure relatively small differences, their existence does not contradict the claim that the energy consumption of the brain doesn't change a lot between the resting state and performing an activity.
Let's say that we have gene A, followed by gene B so that they overlap with 100 bases. If you want to knock out only gene A, you can do the following: Now you have disrupted only gene A but you have a functional gene B.
In short, some of the B-cells (antibody producing lymphocytes) specified to deal with this agent go dormant after the vaccine stimulation -- when the real danger comes, they can proliferate quickly and flood it with new antibodies, also alerting the rest of the immune system.
There is a free video course at Carnegie-Mellon University's Open learning initiative. This is very technical and does not cover history of biology. I quite liked D.A. Sadava's non-free video course. This is Genetics and Molecular Biology oriented, but also not a book. It is suitable for a reader with high-school knowledge of chemistry. Maybe it contains too few basics, so it is also not for the absolute layperson. He starts with Mendel and mentions many other 20th-century researchers. The author has co-authored one of those as well.
The assertion "You cannot change in life what will be genetically inherited in any possible way" is true, as you cannot (healthily) change the DNA in your germ cells. However, the assertion "You cannot change in life what will be inherited in any possible way" is wrong, because of. Parts of your DNA are marked (in different ways), and this can be inherited and have an effect. E.g. the only causal difference between these two mice is the diet of their mothers: Image source and a further explanation:.
Infections by a retro-virus (such as HIV) can, at least in principle, be inherited. These viruses integrate their genome into the host's DNA, and these changes pass to next generations as the cells split. So if a germ cell is infected, all the cells in the child would be. The question is whether there's a retro-virus that infects germ cells. I don't think HIV does (it can certainly pass from mother to child, but as a "normal" infection, not through the DNA).
Here, I just want to point to two recent research articles showing evidence against your assertion. The first, published in Cell in 2010, is from Dr Oliver Rando, and suggests that The second, published in Nature in 2011, is from Dr Anne Brunet, and argues that from long-lived parents.
You can clean up phenol by washing with choloroform, and then doing an isopropanol precipitation followed by a 75% EtOH wash (let me know if you'd like an exact protocol). To avoid contamination (and sample loss), you have to be meticulous in your pipetting (which you'll get better with practice). You can always use those phase-lock tubes which basically jams a solid gel between the aqueous and organic phases so it's a lot easier to pipette.
Good news! Some Australians have published on the stability of aqueous gingerol at elevated temperatures: Gingerol turns out to be stable enough to make a cup of tea with at neutral pH. They also note that gingerol and its primary decomposition product form a 50-50 mixture that doesn't degrade further over shortish time periods, and that the decomposition product is probably restored to gingerol in the stomach's acidic pH -- so you're good to make your tea, and probably to hold on to it for at least a few days.
Not quite as ideal as I had hoped, but it works: If it runs successfully it might look something like this: It yields the following output files:
I know nothing about biology however I did watch an amazing PBS documentary on cuttlefish that I think is fairly relevent. From
In relation to the cardio vascular system a combination of adrenaline from exercise and the bodies natural response to the cold causes constriction of blood vessels in the skin and extremities. This helps to reduce heat loss. The movement from running increases the amount of cold air that runs across your body and into your lungs, which would offset the effect of heat generated from running. According to the article about on Wikipedia, the offset is great enough to make shivering while standing still a better way to keep warm.
No; the problem is, as you pointed out, that no organism will manage to multiply, grow or even sustain itself without absorbing matter to create new cells and fill metabolic losses. Even photoautotrophic organisms which get energy from light (which is in fact an E-M wave, so pretty close to electricity) collect matter from the environment -- plants for instance seem to grow out of nothing, but in fact gather significant part of their mass from atmospheric CO_2.
A brief study I conducted of my peers (10 people of varying genders, ages, and races, all about average body type) revealed a rather consistent foot-to-leg length ratio of 1:3 for males and females (variance is insignificant), and width of 2:3 for males and 1:2 for females.
An ethanol precipitation should work. But I have had great success using the Qiagen RNA cleanup columns, which are in my opinion easier. Here is a URL to see the RNA cleanup columns Qiagen offers: Also in the future you should consider using PhaseLock tubes: That saved me from having your exact problem many times over.
Primary oocytes are formed prenatally and reain suspended in prophase of meiosis I for years until the onset of puberty. An oocyte completes meiosis I as its follicle matures (during ovulation) resulting in a secondary oocyte and the FIRST polar body. After ovulation, each oocyte continues to metaphase of meiosis II. Meiosis II is completed only if fertilization occurs, resulting in a fertilized mature ovum and the second polar body. So in short, the egg is stuck in metaphase II until fertilization.
LG stands for "linkage group". It seems the Chicken Genome Sequence group allocated several (alleles or genes which tend to be inherited together) to the (tiny chromosomes typical of birds and reptiles), in this case called "linkage group E64" and "linkage group E22.". There are a load more microchromosomes which are the ones numbered 28-31 and 33-38 which haven't yet had their sequences resolved . References:
Hamsters are considered the best animal model, most studied. C. difficile has been found in calves, ostriches, chickens, elephants, dogs, horses, and pigs, but its role in infection and
The role of the salt is to neutralize the charge of the DNA's sugar phosphate backbone. This makes the DNA less hydrophilic (less soluble in water). Ethanol has a lower dielectric constant than water so it's used to promote ionic bonds between the Na + (from the salt) and the PO 3 - (from the DNA backbone) causing the DNA to precipitate.
It is possible for viruses to live in mutualistic relationships with their hosts, these associations are often overlooked due to the devastating effect that many viruses can have. To give an example in humans, when HIV-1-infected patients are also infected with hepatitis G virus, progression to AIDS is slowed significantly . Also hepatitis A infection can surpress hepatitis C infection. There are many other notable examples within plants, fungi, insects, and other animals, reviewed by, and, in two excellent papers. The table below, summarises some beneficial viruses across all organisms, and is taken from. References
Tickling probably evolved from a defense mechanism but then gradually changed into a more social action, as explained in (PDF):
The selection you refer in multiple species could be due to a mutual advantage. If fruits absorb visible wavelengths, they can be spotted by other animals and eaten together with the seeds. Seeds can then mature inside the host and, once eliminated with the feces, grow up a new plant in a different place. This is not only valid for light absorption, but for light emission also: for some fruits, the that can be spotted by some insects.
actually covers this: Now, some coelomates have subsequently lost their coelom but primates (actually, I believe, all vertebrates) are not among them. In humans, the coelom forms, amongst others, the. So, yes: humans do have a coelom that partitions into different, unconnected body cavities during development.
In humans, the coelom forms by the splitting of the lateral plate mesoderm, which occurs during weeks 4-5 (Sweeney, 1998). Sweeney, LJ. 1998. Basic Concepts in Embryology. McGraw-Hill.
Puffy eyes are caused by fluid build up in tear ducts from extended periods of lying down. Gravity from sitting or standing slowly drains them during the day. The crusty 'sleep' that accumulates in the corner of your eyes is the residue from basal tear liquid that has seeped out of the eye and evaporated during the night.
I would say no. Some HIV strains are X4-tropic and not R5 tropic. That means that the virus uses the CXCR4 coreceptor and not the CCR5 coreceptor for entry into the CD4-positive cell.
Many plants crawl by sending out ground vines and replant themselves in neighboring positions. But that's not what you are asking I think. I don't know if there are any land dwelling leaf bearing plant forms that move. In the water most chlorophyll bearing algae have flagellae and can migrate through the water. Reference:
Shorter DNA would allows easier synthesis, but more introns could allow for more different transcription factors to influence gene expression. Human mitochondria probably does not need to be as adaptable as mitochondria in yeast, since the a human cell's environment tends to be more stable. This could provide a viable reason as to why human mitochondria does not need as many introns, but this is only how I imagine things. I have no proof or experience to validate any of this - its just a possiblility.
Because it interacts with membrane-bound receptors. Those are outside so there is no way IL-2 (or any autocrine factor) could signal while inside the cell. It has to exit. Now, the next question is why the receptor is membrane-bound and outside. As far as I understand there are two parts to this answer:
Likely not. While one can get excellent diffraction data from a high quality crystal, it would be extremely difficult to solve the phase problem. The extra angles will help constraint the solutions.
Theoretically. So I would say it's not too much of a difference:P however this ignores the rest of the chromosomal material: histones
If I recall correctly (from when I interned at ABI), you can't directly set this in the Veriti interface. However, (again, I'm not 100% certain -- I couldn't find anything to confirm this after 30 minutes of googling,) the ramp rate percent refers to the percent of maximum ramp rate for the heating block. According to the, the max heating block ramp rate is 5 °C/s while the max sample ramp rate is 4.25 °C/s, so you need a ramp rate between 2% and 2.4%.
I would use an RNA microarray to look at those difference instead of sequencing. To delicately amplify your tRNAs in an unbiased manner would be a tricky molecular biology endeavor. I wouldn't be surprised if there were detectable and significant differences. Those experiments will be able to confirm your hypotheses regarding codon usage bias.
"1001 questions answered about insects" by Alexander Barrett and Elsie Broughton Klots includes the following passage: However it does not mention compound eyes specifically. There may be other methods of obtaining a perception of distance rather than the binocular vision seen in humans. suggests that there is 'clear evidence' that some insects perceive depth by moving their head to artificially create parallax, which they can then recognise and interpret as depth and distance. They cite the Praying Mantis as an example, which does have compound eyes.
The sense of depth is required to us to orient ourselves in a 3D world. Insects do orient themselves in the exterior 3D world, thanks to the ability to detect the plane of sunlight polarization, that is used as a navigation compass in foraging expeditions and when coming back home. You can find a good review on Current Biology and a from Cornell University.
Cell clumps that not dissociate with rigorous pipetting might very well be caused from free DNA in your cell suspension (i.e. if you trypsinized for too long). Free DNA attracts cells which bind altogether forming clumps. Two possible ways to get rid of these clumps: You can always go back and buy a fresh ampule of the cell line you want clumps free:)
Since there's a lot of methanol in Coomassie stain, a significant amount would probably evaporate off each time you microwave it. Therefore, it'd be probably a good idea not to reuse it because you're losing methanol, and the concentration of everything else is thrown off. Why do you boil the stain? I just pour mine at RT right on the gel and it works fine.
The concept you refer is recognized as mitochondrial biogenesis and it is regulated by AMPK which senses the cellular energy demand. If you have few mitochondria in the cell, the electron transport chain works suboptminally generating less ATP. When the AMP/ATP ratio is high (low ATP) AMPK is activated, and turns on the catabolic pathways required to produce more ATP, included mitochondrial biogenesis.
In my case, three-four rounds of sonication greatly helps in having smaller and more homogeneous hydrophobic particles dispersed in water.
I also haven't tried it, but theoretically GC-rich sequences will interfere with Gibson assembly. Since unique homology between the ends is key to the assembly process, repetitive sequences which cause non-unique overhangs will increase the possibility of incorrectly ordered assembly. One solution would be to use alternative codons where possible to decrease repetitiveness. I'm sure all the overlap design tools will try to avoid repetitive overlaps. at Cambridge Plant Science is a big proponent of Gibson assembly, it was one of his students who wrote Gibthon. If you email him I'm sure he'll give you specific advice.
My rule of thumb for DNA samples (in TE or water) - if I have plans to use it that week, I store at 4C. If I plan on using it within a month, I store at -20C. If I'm not sure when I will use it, I keep multiple aliquots at -80C. DNA can degrade by acid hydrolysis in water, because of contaminating nucleases in the sample, and by multiple freeze/thaw cycles.
The short answer is that it is because the reaction chains dispensing time and enzymes doing those reactions have evolved to negate the impact of environmental factors. The true answer is that the plant clocks do gradually lose sync with 24h cycle when put in stable lighting conditions and move to some more-less random characteristic frequency of their molecular clock which is quite likely dependent on environment (still it is obviously close to 24h) -- the sad truth is that every clock needs syncing to work properly.
DNA has recently been designed to act as a targeted drug-delivery agent at George Church's lab. This doesn't involve catalyzing a reaction between two substrates, but it does involve significant internal conformational changes based on binding to highly specific substrates.
There is not a linear relationship between the size of a muscle and its power. The cat weighs significantly less, but the decline in muscle power is not identical. If he weighs 20x less than you, but his muscle generate 1/5 as much force, he will still be able to jump way higher than you.
I've successfully used the Zymoprep kit, but only for smaller plasmids in 2-hybrid experiments. So their cell lysis enzyme/buffer system works well, but I'd guess that your 42kb plasmid is precipitating out with the genomic DNA. The standard Qiagen midi columns are capable of capturing large constructs. This has worked wonders for me when I was - and gets the cost down to $10/sample (it does require additional buffer, but that's a minor expense). It might be worth trying the for the midi kit and see if you can isolate your large plasmid?
is a company that provides sequencing. Before they sequence your genome, they ask you to fill in a couple of surveys, one of which is about your physical features. Here is a list of some of the questions they ask: That's a small list of phenotype questions you can ask;-)
For a great visualization of the macromolecules inside the cell, check out David Goodsell's illustrations. He tries to reproduce the protein and DNA density within the cell to show how things might be in vivo. Really great stuff. The answer is - its very concentrated. Compare the density of the cell to that of a typical crystallized protein, which is I believe 0.8 g/ml of protein.
Another can be found on the Western Kentucky University site. I will ask also AB0 and Rh Blood Groups, you can use this also to check associations with other genotypes/phenotypes, see this If you are going to sequence also the mitochondrial DNA, you may want to reflect on questions to ask also about their mother phenotypes. Finally you may want to find also the windows, mac or linux preference gene.
Firstly, different genera of trees can occasionally be successfully grafted. For example, quince, genus Cydonia, may be used as a dwarfing rootstock for pear, genus Pyrus. However, it is true to say that this is the exception rather than the rule. In the case of plants in the family Cactaceae, I would suggest that grafting is usually successful for two main reasons: It is also possible that Cacti readily form callus tissue, which would also aid in the grafting process. Nyffeler, R., 2002, doi: 10.3732/ajb.89.2.312 Am. J. Bot. 1 February 2002 vol. 89 no. 2 312-326
Composition of E. coli (dry weight): 55% protein, 20% RNA, 10% lipid, 15% other Protein concentration is about 100 mg/ml or 3 mM. From the size of an E. coli cell, 1 nM is about 1 molecule/cell. This is ~1000 molecules/cell for HeLa cells. Diffusion coefficient for an "average" protein: D ~ 5-15 microns^2/s, or ~10 ms to traverse an E. coli. For reference, a small metabolite in water diffuses about 30-100x faster. Reference:
The veterinarian in our group offers this: For humans, who choke much more frequently than other mammals, it is likely to be a cognitive problem. We talk and eat at the same time and so give ample opportunity to allow food passed the epiglottis and choking. Animals do choke - dogs can, cats can. Not all animals can vomit and this is particularly a problem for horses, whose stomachs will rupture instead of releasing contents through the mouth.
What about fire? A grass fire across the prairie or a forest fire generates temperatures in excess of those mentioned here and yet many organisms, mostly plants, need fire to allow for seeds to open and germinate. I know fire is a short-lived situation, but is extreme nonetheless. The bark of the burr oak, for example, is rather resistant to fire.
Take a look at the strategies used to sequence the wheat genome. Wheat is hexaploid. The project is described at. For early work on the maize genome, we employed methyl filtration in order to reduce genome complexity and size - transposons are filtered out and genes + promoters and such remain. The gene sequences are different from the two genomes, so says the theory, and those can be distinguished. See for the reference.
Pangolin scales are certainly not retained from fish. Pangolins are within the clade and their nearest relatives are anteaters, sloths, and armadillos. According to the, similarities between pangolin and armadillos are the results of convergent evolution. So the pangolin scales are a new feature that arose somewhere on the lineage leading to pangolins.
Not exactly the same thing, but a species of algae has been genetically altered to allow it to uptake glucose, bypassing the need for photosynthesis:
No. There is nothing special about a piece of GM DNA when compared to any other random piece of DNA. If this phenomenon happened at any detectable level, we'd have found eukaryotic DNA in bacterial genomes/plasmids long before the introduction of genetically modified crops. And that would be front page news in the field of horizontal gene transfer! Which has many talented people in it!
Of far greater concern is the transfer of genetic material between bacteria in which antibiotic resistance is conferred. The firmicutes in your poop is not at all the same genetically speaking as the firmicutes in my poop. Polymorphisms and genetic transfer have changed members of the gut microbiome and that leads to differential extraction of energy from the ingested food and differential behavior with respect to antibiotics.
I'd take that computational angle and run the sequence data through tRNAscan-SE (Lowe & Eddy, Nucl Acids Res 25: 955-964). Ideally, you'd install this locally. This tool is what the UCSC folks use and it has been the best known, most widely used tRNA predictor for years. It's what we all used on Arabidopsis thaliana genome annotation back in the late 1990's. There is also a that may have many of the predictions you seek, at least for some of your species/strains.
Most restriction enzymes recognize palindromes, hence the recognition site of an even number of residues. Why palindromes? This allows for a vast increase in complexity (or rarity) from a DNA sequence standpoint, while requiring very little added complexity from the protein. In other words, if a protein domain recognizes 2 or 3 or 4 bp of DNA, simply adding a second copy of that domain to the peptide chain (via duplication of the DNA encoding that domain) does the trick. It is much easier to duplicate a module than to build a new or second (perhaps complimentary) module.
Having read on tool use in Chimpanzees in full, I am inclined to say that if such a term existed then either the article itself or the titles of any of the 30 articles referenced would have included it. Searching a couple of online biological dictionaries and ethology sites hasn't yielded anything either, therefore until someone else points out that I'm missing the obvious I'd say you're free to coin the term yourself!
This question highlights the different. If you go by the reproductive species concept (a population of actually or potentially interbreeding organisms), then yes. Apparently, the populations were interbreeding. If you go by the typological species concept (morphologically distinct), then no. Homo neandertalensis and the "Denosovian" are morphologically distinct enough to be recognized as such.
I would guess that the eye muscle relaxes when the eye is closed. After having the eyes closed, just in the moment after opening them, it seems that the focus is in the distance. It takes a fraction of a second before you can read some text on your computer screen for example. This focusing-duration seems to be shorter when looking into the distance after opening the eyes. Another effect is when you look at an object in short range for quite a moment and then close your eyes. You can feel the relaxation.
This is a difficult experiment. It's usually done by digesting the DNA under conditions where the binding protein is solidly attached. DNAse is added, and then after some time, the DNAse is degraded with heat or the addition of an inhibitor. What you get depends on the length of the DNA protected by the protein and the tenacity by which the protein binds itself to the DNA.
The newest and most accurate method (far more accurate than older extrapolating/manual counting methods (Stereology) and yielding some surprising results) to estimate number/density of neurons/cells in brains is Isotropic Fractionator to my knowledge. Using this keyword you find some recent papers, comparing different brain areas (cerebral cortex, cerebellum,.) among rodents:
I am skipping the background information (I will amend my question later) for now. So, what is known about minicolumn? I wouldn't say that these columns are developmental relic, for there is a known heterogenity among these structures (like hypercolumns, macrocolumns and segregates) and it is rather improbable that all these types are relics. So, as long as we stick to the term "anatomical unit", I see no problems why columns (with all possible types and sizes of them) should not be it.
Well - a lot if you knew what questions to ask. The most obvious thing is sex: if you can find the x and/or y chromosomes. Other things like skin color, eye color, etc, or hereditary diseases and all that would involve running the genome through some sort of database which had values for both pheno and genotypes so you could correlate some of those things and find those physical characteristics. Scientists are discovering these correlations all the time. You can go to and search for something like eye color and find out more than you need probably.
Often cells have multiple types of the same protein — this redundancy can have different effects for different requirements such as having proteins function under different physiological conditions, or providing specificity to a certain class of ligand proteins or so on. But here, it seems like the two have some synergistic interaction, a tag team if you will. Unfortunately this article's full version can only be accessed if you're at a university or somewhere that has a subscription to some of the large research databases, but the abstract is free and it may provide more clarification.
You can use to extract FASTA sequences from the BLAST database. Then you can append your extra sequence to the newly created FASTA file, and remake the BLAST DB using. Assuming you have a protein BLAST database in the current working directory, and a sequence you want to add to it in: (Replace with if you have a nucleotide database)
I think this is due to the over-representation of recognition sites with length 6: If you look at the histogram of lengths, there is no bias towards even recognition site lengths except for length 6.
You could also try induction at lower temperatures to minimize chances of protein degradation. Cells such as Arctic cells are optimized for low temperature expression although BL21 works just as good for the proteins we express (upto 140kDa in size)
This is probably not the most elegant way but you could go to and search for nucleotide sequences from a given organism (eg., txid9606[Organism:exp] gives all sequences from Homo sapiens). Then you could use the Send to dropdown to download all the results as a compiled FASTA file.
The beta-form of DNA and the alpha-form of DNA are based on the pucker on the sugar ribose. As DNA doesn't have a 2'-OH, it can obtain both conformations. RNA does not have this luxury. The steric clash of the 2-OH with the 3'-OH makes the B-form to be very unfavorable thus constraining the RNA to adopt the A-form. Incidentally this steric limitation is also why RNA structures are more stable (see)
Your best option is to create a tab delimited position list file: You can then use the option This file can also be in format if you are interested in specific regions
Looking at one gene is not enough. Since each gene is free to evolve (or not), there can be different sister taxon relationships depending on the gene studied. A better estimate is made using several genes or combining the results of several analyses. According to, the extant sister taxon of Homo sapiens is a clade with the bonobo (Pan paniscus) and chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), with gorillas as an outgroup. So the answer is that neither is closer. Purvis, A. 1995. A Composite Estimate of Primate Phylogeny. Philosophical Transactions: Biological Sciences 348: 405-421.
Your teacher is indeed correct. In the first round you would get two identical molecules of the dsDNA. In the second round you would get 3 identical molecules and one molecular with an substituted for a in one of the strands. ie. No error (3 of the 4 molecules): One mismatch (1 of the 4 molecules): So there are a total of 8 strands of DNA after the second round and one of those strands has the mismatch. = 0.125 = 12.5% In round 3 you would have 8 dsDNA molecules and only one of those 8 dsDNA molecules would have the mismatch.
I will format it to.ppt as soon as I have more time! If something is not readable, please let me know! I have to point out several things:
Phosphorylation requires exposed serine, threonine, tyrosine, or histidine residues (in eukaryotes). This is because the transfer of phosphate groups to proteins is mediated by a class of proteins called kinases. Kinases can have broad or specific activity. This review ought to have most of the answers to your questions:
The answers already posted about glycerol being a cryoprotectant and ice crystals are correct. The other thing to consider is that enzymes still retain some activity at -20°C and though the reaction rate is slower, the cells will degrade until they are no longer viable. I always store glycerol stocks of bacteria at -80°C. Many common E. Coli strains commercially used for cloning are not protease-free and these are the enzymes that are responsible for cellular degradation.
Good questions. I don't think that LTP has been (or will be) shown to be THE mechanism for long term memory. It is one of many mechanisms, all with different time courses, that contribute to the modification of synaptic efficiencies. One mechanism not mentioned much anymore, but which I feel is absolutely crucial, is dendritic spine growth. Spines are malleable and formation/destruction of spines is probably very related to long term memory. But as always, the full picture is going to be a combination of mechanisms. Here is a paper to have a look at:
I've found that extracted RNA using commercial kits has stayed stable for many years at -80 C. I would certainly aliquot it before freezing however as RNA is particularly sensitive to freeze-thaw cleavage.
One important thing is missing in the other answers: not only phosphorylation will happen only at selected aminoacids, but it will not happen at all of those. So, not all of the Ser/Thr/Tyr of a protein can be phosphorylated because they could be structurally unaccessible to protein kinase and because they need to be in a specific motif in order to be phosphorylated. The, for instance, lists the phosphorylation motifs for many and kinases.
If your question is with respect to a eukaryotic cell, the di-sulfide bridge/bond is formed in the rough endoplasmic reticulum which is an oxidative environment (unlike most other organelles which are reductive). This paper may be of relevance to you: - Frand et al, Trends Cell Biol. 2000 May;10:203-10.
I like Nico's response best +1. I did find an interesting on phosphoarginine and phospholysine - the list of possible phosphorylation sites grows. Not only is it the spatial context of the amino acid to be (or not) phosphorylated, as Nico writes and Leonardo implies, but also the temporal. Are the target protein and protein kinase co-expressed? If you're looking at specific tissues (root, flower, leaf) and the kinase in question is only produced in seedlings, maybe that potential phosphorylation won't really occur.
Wikipedia has a remarkably well-cited article on the subject of silks and their various biological isoforms and. With respect to tensile strength, spider's silk is as tough as high-grade steel. Explcitly, dragline silk was measured to be 600 ± 50 MPa with a comparison to silkworm silk. Reference:
If your aim is to figure out which nucleosides are specifically recognized by the protein then once you narrow down the sequence with one of the above methods, you would have to perform sequential rounds of mutagenesis.
While it isn't the cheapest, it is certainly the fastest and simplest. I would quikchange out the amino acid. This would require no subcloning and only require Overall, probably >$20 a mutant all in 2-3 days of waiting. (edit) I'm going with quikchange rather than OE-PCR simply because it removes the cloning steps. You will potentially need to screen more colonies with conventional cloning vs. quikchange.
If you have simple 1:1 connections or can list your data in that manner, you can try Cytoscape (freely available). There are numerous plug-ins to customize what you have in mind in terms of visualization.
OK, so 2 responses, each concerning different protein segments of different types/functions/structures, but not an answer really getting to the heart of the question. Because of the homework tag, I am tempted not to reply - this is something the student should accomplish on his/her own. So, I'll give a general answer to start you thinking. Basically, such a value - be it 7 or 20 for TMs or 13 - is determined empirically.
I haven't tried it, but this suggests that you can import a GraphViz network into (for Mac), which makes it very easy to produce a pretty network (much easier than Photoshop/Illustrator).
You should be looking at the interactions in terms of kinetics and not thermodynamics. k_on and k_off should do the trick.
Any particular glial cell you're noticing this with? I know that Astrocytes modify Calcium concentrations in the synaptic cleft. Perhaps at places where there are more synapses, more Astrocytes must exist to regulate such thing? Here's an interesting paper on a possible role of Astrocytes on associative networks:
Actually, the units are °C days or °F days. The units are mostly given in the typical name, Growing Degree Days where which temperature unit is meant is understood from the context. Much more important is knowing the base temperature ("T_base") since this value can be different in different usages, even for the same type of organism.
Yes, look at FANTOM and their work. There are about 2000 transcription factors and co-factors in the human genome. These are proteins, of course. If you add a couple (or few?) thousand microRNAs and a few dozen anti-sense transcripts, although small in size, you inch that percentage upwards. With some 70% of the human genome transcribed, by some estimates, one could argue that many of these non-coding RNAs (short, long, trans-spliced) act in some way to regulate the DNA to mRNA to protein process. (I can send you those 2000 or so FANTOM TFs if you wish. Contact me by email.)
It is a mnemonic of two words: discoidal + blastula = discoblastula. So it suggests that cleavage is partial discoidal in birds. Embryo forms disc. Cells called blastodisc are on top of the yolk. It seems that the formed disc is blastodisc.
Maybe the passage of time is perceived as a function of heart rate. Waiting 5 minutes for a turn on the swings is 300 seconds for a 2 year old and 300 seconds for a 40 year old. But that same wait is, but only 300 heart beats for the adult.
Bobthejoe was pointing in the right direction kcat and Km - Michaelis Menton parameters are measured to look at the relative rates of an enzyme in non equilibrium state. Basically kcat is 'how fast does the enzyme work with little or no product in solution'. Km is 'how strongly does the enzyme bind the substrates that it uses.
My understanding of bootstrapping is that you may estimate variance (and thus standard error of the population mean) iff your measurements are independent and have the same population distribution, in which case a number of sampling-with-replacement calculations can be done. I suspect that this method of estimation would be less desirable with small n values because of the effect that outliers or large standard deviations may have on the calculation. If you have a large dataset then it shouldn't be an issue.
Propanoic acid is toxic against many types of mold, fungi and bacteria , but same time has almost no effect to C. elegans ("fivefold less",). This is why propanoic acids and (more commmon) its salts are used as conservants for C.elegans cultures (as well as for other animals, like Drosophila).
In the middle cerebral artery blood flow at rest is 73.7 cm/s. After a period of 3 minutes of hyperventilation, blood flow in the same artery decreases to 37.6 cm/s. This is work.: Peak velocities during ventricular systole ranged from 30 to 45 cm/sec in the inferior, and from 10 to 35 cm/sec in the superior, vena cava, also published.
Quick answer, no. Imagine a balloon; as you compress the balloon, there will be a lot of air that leaves it. But as you let it relax, the balloon pulls in surrounding air even as you fill it from another side. When the aortic and tricuspid valves are closed, there is blood flow forward but due to conservation of mass, the blood goes back to fill in the empty region.
Leonardo's already given you an excellent answer, but I thought I'd add my perspective. I'm a mathematical epidemiologist, so I'd at least like to believe these types of models are useful. For me, there are a number of things population dynamics models are especially useful for:
There are a number of ways to address antibiotic resistance in infectious bacteria. What one gets used depends on exactly what organism we're talking about. But below is a short list of some ways:
EOL, and which should be able to access them somehow (I haven't tried specifically downloading commons name before, though, so I can't promise that it'd work). If you need a list locally, ITIS has containing scientific names and common names (although you'd need to do the mapping yourself). Hope that helps!
You are looking for a. These have very sensitive CCD camera and exposure times are around 5 minutes in complete darkness.
You'll also want to make sure that you are imaging in complete darkness because you may have very low photon emission from your luciferase system and any amount of background light can overwhelm your signal with noise.
by simple diffusion through the cell walls. They do not breathe in the same sense that we humans do. They intake oxygen through in the insect's cuticle. It goes through the insect's trachea by dissolving into the tracheal liquid. From there it diffuses throughout the insect in tracheal tubes. At the ends of the tubes, the oxygen is taken by body cells.
Nico provides a nice answer, but implies that the names are more fluid than they actually are. It is possible to get an current standard nomenclature, and to update it each time the ICN releases a new edition. The ICN requires that any changes be made by an international botanical congress, and changes are included when a new addition of the ICN is released. Also, note that the is used for cultivated plants.
Methyl cellulose is a dry binder. It is used to make a pill with a small mass of active ingredient and as much binder as required to make the pill a manageable size. The following properties make methyl cellulose a good dry binder: Most of this information is from the article.
Hmmmm. the only one I can think of fitting at least in part your description would be the golden oriole (Oriolus oriolus). I say partly because it definitely is not 2-3 times a blackbird, could be slightly bigger, but on average it is the same size. Also it sounds extremely unlikely that you have spotted it in early March in Zurich, as they should be in Southern Africa right now. Image, from Wikipedia: I could not find anything else fitting your description in my field guide (Mullarney & Svensson - Birds of Europe)
The cardiovascular system is affected by three types of pressure. These are: Arteries can of course be treated as one long tube due to their lack of valves, therefore the hydrostatic pressure could be significant in contributing to total blood pressure. If hydrostatic pressure is more significant than heamodynamic pressure then this would explain why pressure would be higher the more distal the artery is - when standing there is simply more blood pushing down on it.
I want to say Mycoplasma genitalium with a genome size of 582,970 bp. Turns out the answer is Nanoarchaeum eqitans with a genome of 490,885 bp.
Since you said plant/animal/anything, I offer the smallest genomes in various categories. (Kb means Kilobases, Mb means Megabases. 1 Kb = 1000 base pairs, 1Mb = 1000Kb) Refs.
As the concentration of sugars in the sap increases, so does viscosity. At high viscosity, the sap will not flow at a sufficient rate to provide nourishment to the different plant tissues. In addition, there are limitations to concentrating the solutes in the sap. As the sap becomes more concentrated, the plant would be working against a osmotic gradient to further increase that concentration. That energy cost may be too great.
Most theories about origin of life say that unicellular organisms were first and multicellularity (like chicken) evolved much later, so in that meaning egg (single cell)* was first. Also, almost all chicken ancestors lay eggs (primitive birds, non-avian reptiles, amphibians, fishes and so on.) so eggs existed much earlier than chickens. *in the meaning of zygote. The development of chicken embryo starts in hen's oviducts, so it's not a single cell at the moment when hen lays it .
Dairy cows are bred, or selected to give milk. So they do produce excessively. The normal bovine wild type, like other mammals, not only produce less milk, but also will tend to stop lactating when the calf is not nursing. I would be interested to know if dairy cows stop giving milk if they are not milked every day. I understand they can get very uncomfortable if they are not milked, but i don't know if they stop giving milk or if they are injured in some way.
There are so many types of protein-protein interactions via various domains, such as SH2 binding (in RTK signaling), Pleckstrin Homology domain (involved in signaling) among others. This site gives a nice list: Of course, protein-protein interactions rely on the premises of basic biochemistry: There are many ways to study protein-protein interactions, including, but not limited to
Consider mRNA primary structure in terms of uORFs, upstream open reading frames. These can cause ribosome pausing or slowing and even disassociation from the mRNA. I agree that a definite answer is not known . For different mRNAs, under different cellular conditions (eg, low levels of a given charged tRNA), the balance or interplay between structure- and codon usage-based control of translation could be different.
Basically a summary and details-filled version of the above. Based on it can be deduced that For pandas, the parameters have values Therefore, for pandas, offspring/litter = exp) / to exp) / = to This means, pandas on average have slightly less than 2 offsprings per litter, which means a high probability of having twins, and sometimes single, but rarely higher multiples. Comparing to human which has about, panda has higher probability of having twins mainly because of much lighter neonatal mass.
The R-project R is valuable and significant because it was the first widely-accepted Open-Source alternative to big-box packages. It's mature, well supported, and a standard within many scientific communities.
Machine Learning seems to have its basis in the pragmatic - a Practical observation or simulation of reality. Even within statistics, mindless "checking of models and assumptions" can lead to discarding methods that are useful. For example, years ago, the very first commercially available (and working) Bankruptcy model implemented by the credit bureaus was created through a plain old linear regression model targeting a 0-1 outcome. Technically, that's a bad approach, but practically, it worked.
I second that Jay. Why is R valuable? Here's a short list of reasons.. Also check out - a very nice graphics package for R. Some nice tutorials.
John Cook gives some interesting recommendations. Basically, get percentiles/quantiles (not means or obscure scale parameters!) from the experts, and fit them with the appropriate distribution.
The assumption of normality assumes your data is normally distributed (the bell curve, or gaussian distribution). You can check this by plotting the data or checking the measures for kurtosis (how sharp the peak is) and skewdness (if more than half the data is on one side of the peak).
For doing a variety of MCMC tasks in Python, there's, which I've gotten quite a bit of use out of. I haven't run across anything that I can do in BUGS that I can't do in PyMC, and the way you specify models and bring in data seems to be a lot more intuitive to me.
for those of you who wish to program in C / C++ is a valuable resource as it provides several routines for random generators, linear algebra etc. While GSL is primarily available for Linux there are also ports for Windows (See: and).
If your mean value for the Poisson is 1500, then you're very close to a normal distribution; you might try using that as an approximation and then modelling the mean and variance separately.
R is great, but I wouldn't really call it "windows based":) That's like saying the cmd prompt is windows based. I guess it is technically in a window. RapidMiner is far easier to use [1]. It's a free, open-source, multi-platform, GUI. Here's a video on time series forecasting: Also, don't forget to read: [1] No, I don't work for them.
You don't need to install any packages because this is possible with base-R functions. Have a look at. This is a basic function of, so you should consider reading one of the R time series text-books for an overview; my favorite is Shumway and Stoffer. " ".
The is something close to a Golden Standard for testing random number generators. It includes a number of tests where a good random number generator should produce result distributed according to some know distribution against which the outcome using the tested generator can then be compared. EDIT I have to update this since I was not exactly right: Diehard might still be used a lot, but it is no longer maintained and not state-of-the-art anymore. NIST has come up with since.
should work well for this type of problem. However, it does require that you specify the number of clusters in advance. Given the nature of this data, however, you may be able to work with a instead. Since all 4 variables are most likely fairly highly correlated, you can most likely break out clusters, and stop when you reach a small enough distance between clusters. This may be a much simpler approach in this specific case, and allows you to determine "how many clusters" by just stopping as soon as you've broken your set into fine enough clusters.
Yes, there are many methods. You would need to specify which model you're using, because it can vary. For instance, Some models will be compared based on the or criteria. In other cases, one would look at the (as, for instance, with a support vector machine).
The first formula is the population standard deviation and the second formula is the the sample standard deviation. The second formula is also related to the unbiased estimator of the variance - see for further details. I suppose (here) in the UK they don't make the distinction between sample and population at high school. They certainly don't touch concepts such as biased estimators.
This is. The US version is showing the formula for the sample standard deviation, where the UK version above is the standard deviation of the sample.
From: Data visualization is the study of the visual representation of data, meaning "information which has been abstracted in some schematic form, including attributes or variables for the units of information" Data viz is important for visualizing trends in data, telling a story - See - possibly one of the best data graphics ever printed. Also see any of Edward Tufte's books - especially
Since N is the number of points in the data set, one could argue that by calculating the mean one has reduced the degree of freedom in the data set by one (since one introduced a dependency into the data set), so one should use N-1 when estimating the standard deviation from a data set for which one had to estimate the mean before.
offers quite a lot of interesting data and has been recently very active in developing nice for it. Also, project has an interesting list available. For US health related data head for. Daniel Lemire's blog to few interesting examples (mostly tailored towards DB research) including Canadian Census 1880 and synoptic cloud reports. And as for today are also available to download.
It's an algorithm for training feedforward multilayer neural networks (multilayer perceptrons). There are several nice java applets around the web that illustrate what's happening, like this one:. Also, is the standard desk reference for anything to do with NNs.
for overdispersed poisson, use the negative binomial, which allows you to parameterize the variance as a function of the mean precisely. rnbinom, etc. in R.
In such a discussion, I always recall the famous Ken Thompson quote In this case, machine learning is a salvation when the assumptions are hard to catch; or at least it is much better than guessing them wrong.
I use and the most on a daily basis. I also rely heavily on time series packages; most especially, the package.
I use the package. The xtable package turns tables produced by R (in particular, the tables displaying the anova results) into LaTeX tables, to be included in an article.
R is designed around ideas such as "reproducible research" and "trustworthy software", as John Chambers says. One of the best ways to learn R is to look at the wealth of source code that available on (with 2461 packages and counting). Simple, load a, and start browsing the code.
A random variable is a variable whose value depends on unknown events. We can summarize the unknown events as "state", and then the random variable is a function of the state. Example: Suppose we have three dice rolls . Then the state. X=++ Y=D_{1}+D_{2}+D_{3}
When I teach very basic statistics to Secondary School Students I talk about evolution and how we have evolved to spot patterns in pictures rather than lists of numbers and that data visualisation is one of the techniques we use to take advantage of this fact. Plus I try to talk about recent news stories where statistical insight contradicts what the press is implying, making use of sites like to find the representation before choosing the story.
As user28 said in comments above, the pdf is the first derivative of the cdf for a continuous random variable, and the difference for a discrete random variable. In the continuous case, wherever the cdf has a discontinuity the pdf has an atom. Dirac delta "functions" can be used to represent these atoms.
Eliciting priors is a tricky business. and are quite good practical guides for prior elicitation. The process in both papers is outlined as follows: Of course, they also review how the elicitation results in information that may be fit to or otherwise define distributions (for instance, in the Bayesian context,), but quite importantly, they also address common pitfalls in modeling expert knowledge (anchoring, narrow and small-tailed distributions, etc.).
For me report has been always good point of reference. For more recent overview you can also have a look at good by Heer and colleagues. But what would explain better than visualization itself?
A frequency table is a good place to start. You can do the count, and relative frequency for each level. Also, the total count, and number of missing values may be of use. You can also use a contingency table to compare two variables at once. Can display using a mosaic plot too.
In R, the default setting for random number generation are: You can easily check this, viz. It is possible to change the default generator to other PRNGs, such as Super-Duper,Wichmann-Hill, Marsaglia-Multicarry or even a user-supplied PRNG. See the?RNGkind for further details. I have never needed to change the default PRNG. The library also uses the by default.
I see all my favorite blogs have been listed. So I'll give you this one: It's a bit light hearted.
is an aggregated blog from lots of blogs that talk about statistics using R, and the hashtag on twitter is also helpful. I write quite a bit about.
One way you can think of this is that standard deviation is similar to a "distance from the mean". Compare this to distances in euclidean space - this gives you the true distance, where what you suggested (which, btw, is the) is more like a calculation.
The squared difference has nicer mathematical properties; it's continuously differentiable (nice when you want to minimize it), it's a sufficient statistic for the Gaussian distribution, and it's (a version of) the L2 norm which comes in handy for proving convergence and so on. The mean absolute deviation (the absolute value notation you suggest) is also used as a measure of dispersion, but it's not as "well-behaved" as the squared error.
Another vote for Gelman et al., but a close second for me -- being of the learn-by-doing persuasion -- is Jim Albert's.
I believe that this calls for a, or the like. The two-sample Kolmogorov–Smirnov test is based on comparing differences in the (ECDF) of two samples, meaning it is sensitive to both location and shape of the the two samples. It also generalizes out to a multivariate form. This test is found in various forms in different packages in R, so if you are basically proficient, all you have to do is install one of them (e.g.), and run it on your sample data.
I recommend these books - they are highly rated on Amazon too: "Text Mining" by Weiss "Text Mining Application Programming", by Konchady For software, I recommend RapidMiner (with the text plugin), free and open-source. This is my "text mining process": Then you can start the work of classifying them. kNN, SVM, or Naive Bayes as appropriate. You can see my series of text mining videos
If I had to choose one thing, make sure that you read. There are many good resources on, but in particular, read and.
Neural network may be to slow for a large number of documents (also this is now pretty much obsolete). And you may also check Random Forest among classifiers; it is quite fast, scales nice and does not need complex tuning.
[1] this would technically be principal components regression. you would have to force the springs to move only "vertically" to be least squares, but the example is illustrative either way.
Principal components are orthogonal by definition, so any pair of PCs will have zero correlation. However, PCA can be used in regression if there are a large number of explanatory variables. These can be reduced to a small number of principal components and used as predictors in a regression.
There are a number of statistical tests (known as "unit root tests") for dealing with this problem. The most popular is probably the "Augmented Dickey-Fuller" (ADF) test, although the Phillips-Perron (PP) test and the KPSS test are also widely used. Both the ADF and PP tests are based on a null hypothesis of a unit root (i.e., an I(1) series). The KPSS test is based on a null hypothesis of stationarity (i.e., an I(0) series). Consequently, the KPSS test can give quite different results from the ADF or PP tests.
Sample size doesn't much depend on the population size, which is counter-intuitive to many. Most polling companies use 400 or 1000 people in their samples. There is a reason for this: A sample size of 400 will give you a confidence interval of +/-5% 19 times out of 20 A sample size of 1000 will give you a confidence interval of +/-3% 19 times out of 20 When you are measuring a proportion near 50% anyways. This calculator isn't bad:
Rather than exclude outliers, you can use a robust method of regression. In R, for example, the can be used instead of the function. The method of estimation can be tuned to be more or less robust to outliers.
For a univariate KDE, you are better off using something other than Silverman's rule which is based on a normal approximation. One excellent approach is the Sheather-Jones method, easily implemented in R; for example, The situation for multivariate KDE is not so well studied, and the tools are not so mature. Rather than a bandwidth, you need a bandwidth matrix. To simplify the problem, most people assume a diagonal matrix, although this may not lead to the best results. The provides some very useful tools including allowing a full (not necessarily diagonal) bandwidth matrix.
I really like the, from the St. Louis Fed (economics data). You can chart the series or more than one series, you can do some transformations to your data and chart it, and the NBER recessions are shaded.
Sometimes outliers are bad data, and should be excluded, such as typos. Sometimes they are Wayne Gretzky or Michael Jordan, and should be kept. Outlier detection methods include: Univariate boxplot. outside of 1.5 times inter-quartile range is an outlier. Bivariate scatterplot with confidence ellipse. outside of, say, 95% confidence ellipse is an outlier. Multivariate Mahalanobis D2 distance Mark those observations as outliers. Run a logistic regression (on Y=IsOutlier) to see if there are any systematic patterns. Remove ones that you can demonstrate they are not representative of any sub-population.
Try using the function for time series decomposition. It provides a very flexible method for extracting a seasonal component from a time series.
As far as I know there is no way to select automatically the number of layers and neurons in each layer. But there are networks that can build automatically their topology, like EANN (Evolutionary Artificial Neural Networks, which use Genetic Algorithms to evolved the topology). There are several approaches, a more or less modern one that seemed to give good results was.
Let denote the cdf; then you can always approximate the pdf of a continuous random variable by calculating {F - F}{x_2 - x_1}, where and are on either side of the point where you want to know the pdf and the distance is small.
by Will G. Hopkins is great! It is designed to help you understand how to understand the results of statistical analyses, not how to prove statistical theorems.
Start R and type. This will show all datasets in the search path. Many additional datasets are available in add-on packages. For example, there are some interesting real-world social science datasets in the package.
Temperatures are continuous. It can be 23 degrees, 23.1 degrees, 23.100004 degrees. Sex is discrete. You can only be male or female (in classical thinking anyways). Something you could represent with a whole number like 1, 2, etc The difference is important as many statistical and data mining algorithms can handle one type but not the other. For example in regular regression, the Y must be continuous. In logistic regression the Y is discrete.
I have written a document that is freely available at my website and on CRAN. See the linked page: The datasets that are used in the document are also linked from that page. Feedback is welcome and appreciated! Andrew
IMO, is the best and is very well documented and supported. It is the basis for my R package. These are also very good, although they have more of a learning curve:
This interesting question is the subject of some research in The lead researcher is Andrew Speirs-Bridge, and his work is eminently google-able:) New link:
The Xorshift PNG designed by George Marsaglia. Its period is much shorter than the Mersenne-Twister but the algorithm is very simple to implement and lends itself to parallelization. Performs well on many-core architectures such as DSP chips and Nvidia's Tesla.
If the cdf of is denoted by, then the cdf of the minimum is given by.
The maximum does not have a normal distribution. Its cdf is where is the standard normal cdf. In general the moments of this distribution are tricky to obtain analytically. There is an ancient paper on this by.
This is the one I've used successfully:. I just stumbled on this too, this might be useful:. I'm sure I knew of a free pdf that some doctors I know use, but I can't seem to find it at the moment. I will try to dig it out.
I'm going to leave the main question alone, because I think I will get it wrong (although I too analyse data for a healthcare provider, and to be honest, if I had these data, I would just analyse them using standard techniques and hope for the best, they look pretty okay to me). As for R packages, I have found the TSA library and it's accompanying very useful indeed. The command, particularly, I think is a great time saver.
I'm not sure what you mean when you say you aren't thinking of a regression problem but of "true multivariate data". My initial response would be to calculate the Mahalanobis distance since it doesn't require that you specify a particular IV or DV, but at its core (as far as I understand it) it is related to a leverage statistic.
Depending on the size of the dataset in question, a permutation test might be preferable to a bootstrap in that it may be able to provide an exact test of the hypothesis (and an exact CI).
Might be a bit narrow in scope, but if you're doing any work in Clojure on the JVM there's the excellent:
ggobi and the R links to Ggobi are really rather good for this. There are simpler visualisations (iPlots is very nice, also interactive, as mentioned). But it depends whether you are doing something more specialised. For example TreeView lets you visualise the kind of cluster dendrograms you get out of microarrays.
Update (August 2014): as @gappy comments below, as of R version 3.0.0 the limits are higher and means R is capable of handling larger datasets. Here's a data point: R has a, useful to know if you plan on working with huge data sets. I'm unsure whether the same limitations apply to Clojure/Incanter, whether it outperforms R or is actually worse. I imagine the JVM can probably handle large datasets, especially if you manage to harness the power of Clojure's lazy features.
For me personally, I use the following three packages the most, all available from the awesome (I do not claim to be an expert, but for my purposes they are very easy to use):
If you're an economist/econometrician then Grant Farnworth's paper on using R is indispensable and is available on CRAN at:
It may be an overshoot, but you may train an unsupervised Random Forest on the data and use the object proximity measure to detect outliers. More details.
It's hard to go past R for graphics. You could do what you want in 3 lines. For example, assuming the csv file has four columns:
The easiest way is to use R Use to enter the data into R, then use a combination of the and commands If you want something really special, then look at the libraries or. In the following commands should get you started. This would give you the following plot: Saving plots in R Saving plots in R is straightforward: Instead of 's you can also save as a or postscript file:
My favorite tool is Python with. The advantages: Specifically, for different file formats like svg and eps, use the parameter of. An example: input.csv Code:
is an article describing one possible algorithm. Source code included and a quite serious application (gravitational wave detection based on laser interferometry), so you can expect it to be well tested.
In plain English: If your classifier misclassifies some data, train another copy of it mainly on this misclassified part with hope that it will discover something subtle. And then, as usual, iterate. On the way there are some voting schemes that allow to combine all those classifiers' predictions in sensible way. Because sometimes it is impossible (the noise is just hiding some of the information, or it is not even present in the data); on the other hand, boosting too much may lead to overfitting.
As you mentioned sorting would be for a window of length. Doing this moving adds another making the total cost. The simplest way to push this is by keeping an ordered list of the last n elements in memory when moving from one window to the next one. As removing/inserting one element from/into an ordered list are both this would result in costs of. Pseudocode:
You could of for a supervised self-organizing map (e.g. with package for R), and use the login frequency as dependent variable. That way, the clustering will focus on separating the frequent visitors from the rare visitors. By plotting the number of users on each map unit, you may get an idea in clusters present in your data. Because SOMs are non-linear mapping methods, this approach is particularly interesting for tailed data.
Also, for some elaborate discussion (including bashing of ADF / PP / KPSS:) you might want to have a look at the book by Maddala and Kim: Quite extensive and not very easy to read sometimes, but a useful reference.
In case of Poisson it is bad, since counts are counts -- their unit is an unity. On the other hand, if you'd use some advanced software like R, its Poisson handling functions will be aware of such large numbers and would use some numerical tricks to handle them. Obviously I agree that normal approximation is another good approach.
When you're dealing with a Poisson distribution with large values of (its parameter), it is common to use a normal approximation to the Poisson distribution. As mentions, it's all right to use the normal approximation when gets over 20, and the approximation improves as gets even higher. The Poisson distribution is defined only over the state space consisting of the non-negative integers, so rescaling and rounding is going to introduce odd things into your data. Using the normal approx. for large Poisson statistics is VERY common.
Day-to-day the most useful package must be "foreign" which has functions for reading and writing data for other statistical packages e.g. Stata, SPSS, Minitab, SAS, etc. Working in a field where R is not that commonplace means that this is a very important package.
You might consider transforming (perhaps a log) the positively skewed variables. If after exploring various clustering algorithms you find that the four variables simply reflect varying intensity levels of usage, you might think about a theoretically based classification. Presumably this classification is going to be used for a purpose and that purpose could drive meaningful cut points on one or more of the variables.
A good place to look is Carnegie Mellon University's, which contains data files that "illustrate the use of basic statistics methods. A good example can make a lesson on a particular statistics method vivid and relevant. DASL is designed to help teachers locate and identify datafiles for teaching. We hope that DASL will also serve as an archive for datasets from the statistics literature."
I think you need to rework this question. It all depends on the problem/data which has generated the cross-tab.
I really enjoy working with for easy proper fitting of signal and background distributions and for quick principal component analyses and modelling of multivariate problems with some standard tools (like genetic algorithms and neural networks, also does BDTs). They are both part of the C++ libraries which have a pretty heavy bias towards particle physics problems though.
One typically takes the log of an input variable to scale it and change the distribution (e.g. to make it normally distributed). It cannot be done blindly however; you need to be careful when making any scaling to ensure that the results are still interpretable. This is discussed in most introductory statistics texts. You can also read Andrew Gelman's paper on for a discussion on this. He also has a very nice discussion on this at the beginning of. Taking the log is not an appropriate method for dealing with bad data/outliers.
A "right" answer cannot depend on an arbitrary ordering of some method you are using. You need to consider all possible orderings (or some representative sample) and estimate your parameters for every case. This will give you distributions for the parameters you are trying to estimate. Estimate the "true" parameter values from these distributions (this will also give you an estimate for your estimator error). Alternatively use a method that doesn't introduce an ordering.
You tend to take logs of the data when there is a problem with the residuals. For example, if you plot the residuals against a particular covariate and observe an increasing/decreasing pattern (a funnel shape), then a transformation may be appropriate. Non-random residuals usually indicate that your model assumptions are wrong, i.e. non-normal data. Some data types automatically lend themselves to logarithmic transformations. For example, I usually take logs when dealing with concentrations or age. Although transformations aren't primarily used to deal outliers, they do help since taking logs squashes your data.
I've heard two rules of thumb in this regard. One holds that so long as there are enough observations in the error term to evoke the central limit theorem, e.g. 20 or 30, you are fine. The other holds that for each estimated slope one should have at least 20 or 30 observations. The difference between using 20 or 30 as the target number is based on different thoughts regarding when there are enough observations to reasonably evoke the Central Limit Theorem.
A saturated model is one in which there are as many estimated parameters as data points. By definition, this will lead to a perfect fit, but will be of little use statistically, as you have no data left to estimate variance. For example, if you have 6 data points and fit a 5th-order polynomial to the data, you would have a saturated model (one parameter for each of the 5 powers of your independant variable plus one for the constant term).
The fact that something more complex reduces to something less complex when some assumption is checked is not enough to throw the simpler method away.
You can simply ignore the 'factorial' when using maximum likelihood. Here is the reasoning for your suicides example. Let: λ: Be the expected number of suicides per year k i: Be the number of suicides in year i. Then you would maximize the log-likelihood as: LL = ∑ (k i log(λ) - λ - k i! ) Maximizing the above is equivalent to maximizing the following as k i! is a constant: LL ' = ∑ (k i log(λ) - λ ) Could explain why the factorial is an issue? Am I missing something?
Rob Hyndman gave the easy exact answer for a fixed n. If you're interested in asymptotic behavior for large n, this is handled in the field of. There is a small family of possible limiting distributions; see for example the first chapters of.
ggplot2 - hands down best visualization for R. RMySQL/RSQLite/RODBC - for connecting to a databases sqldf - manipulate data.frames with SQL queries Hmisc/rms - packages from Frank Harrell containing convenient miscellaneous functions and nice functions for regression analyses. GenABEL - nice package for genome-wide association studies Rcmdr - a decent GUI for R if you need one. Also check out has a list of the most popular R packages. Many on the top of the list have already been ment
Computer virus propagation is structurally similar to infectious diseases propagation (vaccinations = anti-virus software, virus via email = getting a virus from someone etc). Use the following links: and as jumping points for your model.
You might start with this. He gives a good overview of the field. My favorite books on the subject: Beyond that, you may want some general resources, and the "bible" of finance is by John Hull. Lastly, in terms of some good general books, you might start with these two:
Because exact results are preferable to approximations, and avoid odd edge cases where the approximation may lead to a different result than the exact method. The Welch method isn't a quicker way to do any old t-test, it's a tractable approximation to an otherwise very hard problem: how to construct a t-test under unequal variances. The equal-variance case is well-understood, simple, and exact, and therefore should always be used when possible.
Ed Thorpe started the whole statistical arbitrage thing. He has a website, and some good articles. You should also read Nassim Taleb's "Fooled By Randomness". Also, go on Google Scholar and read the top articles by Markowitz, Sharpe, Fama, Modigliani. If you don't have full access, go to the nearest college and get a community library card.
The entropy is only one (as a concept) -- the amount of information needed to describe some system; there are only many its generalizations. Sample entropy is only some entropy-like descriptor used in heart rate analysis.
Cover and Thomas's book is a good source on entropy and its applications, although I don't know that it addresses exactly the issues you have in mind.
If the information required is the distribution of data about the mean, standard deviation comes in handy. The sum of the difference of each value from the mean is zero (obviously, since the value are evenly spread around the mean), hence we square each difference so as to convert negative values to positive, sum them across the population, and take their square root. This value is then divided by the number of samples (or, the size of the population). This gives the standard deviation.
The population is everything in the group of study. For example, if you are studying the price of Apple's shares, it is the historical, current, and even all future stock prices. Or, if you run an egg factory, it is all the eggs made by the factory. You don't always have to sample, and do statistical tests. If your population is your immediate living family, you don't need to sample, as the population is small. Sampling is popular for a variety of reasons:
I've never had to do this, so this is just a suggestion. I see two (other) possibilities. Half data Sampling distribution The other option, is to use an approximation involving the sampling distribution. If your data is Normal, then the standard error for moderate n is: 1.253 * sd / sqrt (n) To determine the size of n that you would be happy with, I ran a quick Monte-Carlo simulation in R For n=10000, 15% of the uniform median estimates were outside the CI.
Check out as well. It's oriented toward more advanced practitioners, but if I had to choose one person from whom to learn financial math, it would be Paul Wilmott. Brilliant but grounded.
To fit the model you can use or. In fact if you look at the week 3 of the lecture notes at Paul Hewson's, the rats JAGS example is a beta binomial model. He puts gamma priors on alpha and beta.
We try to minimize the variance that is left within descriptors. Why variance? Read; this also comes together with the (mostly silent) assumption that errors are normally distributed. Extension: Two additional arguments:
I am no statistician, and I haven't read that much on the topic, but perhaps should be mentioned? It is no textbook, but still worth reading.
You cannot prove, because it is impossible; you can only check if there are no any embarrassing autocorrelations or distribution disturbances, and indeed is a standard for it. This is for statistics/physics, cryptographers will also mainly check (among other things) how hard is it to fit the generator to the data to obtain the future values.
Understanding multivariate normal distribution is important. The concept of correlation and more generally (non linear) dependence is important. Concentration of measure, asymptotic normality, convergence of random variables. how to make something from random to deterministic! maximum likelihood estimation and before that, statistical modeling:) and more generally minimum contrast estimation. stationary process and more generally stationnarity assumption and ergodic property. as Peter said, the question is so broad. that the answer couldn't be given in a post.
Firstly I can recommend you the book by Manning and Schütze. The methods I would use are word-frequency distributions and ngram language models. The first works very well when you want to classify on topic and your topics are specific and expert (having keywords). Ngram modelling is the best way when you want to classify writing styles etc.
I would start with a frequency distribution. Collect for a big corpus the word-frequencies and select smartly the words that are keywords (not misspellings, with a very low frequency, and not stop words like "and", "or") Then when you have a number of new feeds, compare their distribution with the distribution that you build from your training data. Look to the big differences in frequencies and select so the important keywords of that moment.
I would do some sort of "leave one out testing algorithm" (n is the number of data): for i=1 to n end for sort the (for i=1,..,n) and use a multiple hypothesis testing procedure to say which are not good. This will work if n is sufficiently large. you can also use "leave k out strategy" which can be more relevent when you have "groups" of outliers.
by Taleb Taleb is a professor at Columbia and an options trader. He made about $800 million dollars in 2008 betting against the market. He also wrote Black Swan. He discusses the absurdity of using the normal distribution to model markets, and philosophizes on our ability to use induction.
Take a look at the sample galleries for three popular visualization libraries: For the first two, you can even view the associated source code -- the simple stuff is simple, not many lines of code. The prefuse case will have the requisite Java boilerplate code. All three support a number of backends/devices/renderers (pdf, ps, png, etc). All three are clearly capable of high quality graphics. I think it pretty much boils down to which language are you most comfortable working in. Go with that.
Just to add a bit to honk's answer, the (developed by George Marsaglia) are the standard tests for PRNG. There's a nice that gives you access to these tests. As well as the standard Diehard tests it also provides functions for a few other PRNG tests involving (amongst other things) checking bit order. There is also a facilty for testing the speed of the RNG and writing your own tests. There is a R interface to the Dieharder library, called: This shows that the RNG generator fails the minimum-distance / 2dsphere test.
We could stay here all day denoting best practices, but you should start by reading Tufte. My primary recommendation: Keep it simple. Often people try to load up their charts with information. But you should really just have one main idea that you're trying to convey and if someone doesn't get your message almost immediately, then you should rethink how you have presented it. So don't start working on your chart until the message itself is clear. Occam's razor applies here too.
The Tufte principles are very good practices when preparing plots. See also his book The principles include: The term to search for is Information Visualization
One rule of thumb that I don't always follow but which is on occasion useful is to take into account that it is likely that your plot will at some point in its future be You need to try and make your plots clear enough that even if they are imprecisely reproduced in the future, the information the plot is trying to convey is still legible.
What kind of movement are we talking about? You could of course fit a distribution over your data and see whether the new weeks fit in this distribution or are in the tail of it (which means it is likely something significant, real that you are observing) However, more information from your side would be helpful. Maybe you could provide a part of the dataset?
One of the above answers touched in mahalanobis distances. perhaps anpther step further and calculating simultaneous confidence intervals would help detect outliers!
In addition to conveying a clear message I always try to remember the plotsmanship: I have configured my plotting software (matplotlib, ROOT or root2matplotlib) to do most of this right by default. Before I was using which needed extra care here.
I think you need look at statistical. The most common of which are cusum and Shewhart charts. Basically, data arrives sequentially and is tested against a number of rules. For example, In R you can use the package. For example, Gives the following plot, with possible problem points highlighted in red.
I think you should take a look to the similar from mathoverflow. My answer to this post was by Van der Vaart.
, Harald Cramér is really great if you're coming to Statistics from the mathematical side. It's a bit dated, but still relevant for all the basic mathematical statistics. Two other noteworthy books come to mind for inference and estimation theory: Not entirely sure if this is what you wanted, but you can check out the reviews and see if they meet your expectations.
Could you group the data set into much smaller data sets (say 100 or 1000 or 10,000 data points) If you then calculated the median of each of the groups. If you did this with enough data sets you could plot something like the average of the results of each of the smaller sets and this woul, by running enough smaller data sets converge to an 'average' solution.
I find that people find the solution more intuitive if you change it to 100 doors, close first, second, to 98 doors. Similarly for 50 doors, etc.
I think every statistician should read Stigler's It is beautifully written, thorough and it isn't a historian's perspective but a mathematician's, hence it doesn't avoid the technical details.
For you I would suggest: by Herman J. Bierens, CUP. The word "Introduction" in the title is a sick joke for most PhD econometrics students. by Dani Gamerman, Chapman & Hall is also concise.
The UCLA resource listed by Stephen Turner (below) is excellent if you just want to apply methods you're already familiar with using Stata. If you're looking for textbooks which teach you statistics/econometrics while using Stata then these are solid recommendations (but it depends at what level you're looking at): Introductory Methods An Introduction to Modern Econometrics Using Stata by Chris Baum Introduction to Econometrics by Chris Dougherty Advanced/Specialised Methods Multilevel and Longitudinal Modeling Using Stata by Rabe-Hesketh and Skrondal Regression Models for Categorical Dependent Variables Using Stata by Long and Freese
The Gelman books are all excellent but not necessarily introductory in that they assume that you know some statistics already. Therefore they are an introduction to the Bayesian way of doing statistics rather than to statistics in general. I would still give them the thumbs up, however. As an introductory statistics/econometrics book which takes a Bayesian perspective, I would recommend Gary Koop's.
Here are my guidelines, based on the most common errors I see (in addition to all the other good points mentioned)
More from an economics perspectives I think these two sets of lecture notes are very good: The first provides econometric methods for analysing financial data whereas the second provides the financial economics theory behind the models being applied. They're both MSc level texts.
For us, it is just one example of a robust regression -- I believe it is used by statisticians also, but maybe not so wide because it has some better known alternatives.
One way to test patterns in stock market data is discussed. A similar approach would be to randomise the stock market data and identify your patterns of interest, which would obviously be devoid of any meaning due to the deliberate randomising process. These randomly generated patterns and their returns would form your null hypothesis. By statistically comparing the pattern returns in the actual data with the returns from the null hypothesis randomised data patterns you may be able to distinguish patterns which actually have some meaning or predictive value.
To me, whether or not the line represents actual data seems irrelevant. What's the point of the plot? If it's so that somebody will do something when utilization crosses a threshold, the line marking the threshold had better be very visible. If the point of the plot is to give an overview of utilization over time, then why include the line at all? Just put the major gridlines of your plot at intervals that will coincide with your threshold (25% in your example), and let the reader figure it out.. y'all been reading too much Tufte.
In the physics field there is a rule that the whole paper/report should be understandable only from quick look at the plots. So I would mainly advise that they should be self-explanatory. This also implies that you must always check whether your audience is familiar with some kind of plot -- I had once made a big mistake assuming that every scientist knows what boxplots are, and then wasted an hour to explain it.
If this is about your "Qnotifier" I think that you should plot the threshold line in some darker gray so it is distinguishable but not disturbing. Then I would color the part of the plot that reaches over the threshold in some alarmistic hue, like red.
I thought that the White Standard Error and the Standard Error computed in the "normal" way (eg, Hessian and/or OPG in the case of maximum likelihood) were asymptotically equivalent in the case of homoskedasticity? Only if there is heteroskedasticity will the "normal" standard error be inappropriate, which means that the White Standard Error is appropriate with or without heteroskedasticity, that is, even when your model is homoskedastic. I can't really talk about 2, but I don't see the why one wouldn't want to calculate the White SE and include in the results.
Not Statistics specific, but a good resource is: Also, George Cain at Georgia Tech maintains a list of freely available maths texts that includes some statistical texts.
If you're coming from the programming side, one option is to use the (NLTK) for Python. There's an O'Reilly book,, which might be a less dense and more practical introduction to building classifiers for documents among other things. If you're interested in beefing up on the statistical side, Roger Levy's book in progress,, might not be bad to peruse. It's written for cogsci/compsci grad students starting out with statistical NLP techniques.
The Elements of Statistical Learning by Hastie, Tibshirani, and Friedman is a standard text for statistics and data mining, and is now free: Also Available.
For getting into stochastic processes and SDEs, Tom Kurtz's are hard to beat. It starts with a decent review of probability and some convergence results, and then dives right into continuous time stochastic processes in fairly clear, comprehensible language. In general it's one of the best books on the topic -- free or otherwise -- I've found.
I assume your friend prefers something that's biostatistics oriented. Glantz's is a small book, an easy and quick read, and tends to get rave reviews from a similar audience. If an online reference works, I like Gerard Dallal's, which may do the trick if he's just refreshing previous knowledge.
If it does not break your styleguide I would rather color the background of the plots red/ (yellow/)green than just plotting a line. In my imagination this should make it pretty clear to a user that values are fine on green and to be checked on red. Just my 5¢.
Not a book, but I recently discovered an article by Jacob Cohen in American Psychologist entitled "Things I have learned (so far)." It's available as a pdf.
A lot of Social Science / Psychology students with minimal mathematical background like Andy Field's book:. He also has a website that shares a.
It also depends on where you wan't to publish your plots. You'll save yourself a lot of trouble by consulting the guide for authors before making any plots for a journal. Also save the plots in a format that is easy to modify or save the code you have used to create them. Chances are that you need to make corrections.
Generally, it is assumed that AIC (and so AICc) is defined up to adding a constant, so the fact if it is negative or positive is not meaningful at all. So the answer is yes, it is valid.
I think you can get some distortion on the pasting point as not all the underlying waves will connect very well. I would suggest using a Hilbert Huang transform for this. Just do the split into intrinsic mode functions and see what is left over as residue when calculating them.
If I understand your question right, than the answer to your problem is to correct the p-values accordingly to the number of hypothesis. For example Holm-Bonferoni corrections, where you sort the hypothesis (= your different models) by their p-value and reject those with a p samller than (desired p-value / index). More about the topic can be found on
Backward elimination. Start with the full set, then iteratively train the classifier on the remaining features and remove the feature with the smallest importance, stop when the classifier error rapidly increases/becomes unacceptable high. Importance can be even obtained by removing iteratively each feature and check the error increase or adapted from the classifier if it produces it (like in case of Random Forest).
I do not know at what level you want the videos to be but I have heard good things about Khan's Academy:
Metropolis scanning / MCMC You may extend it with some wiser control of parameter. Simpler way is to use simulated annealing when you increase (lower the temperature in physical analogy) over the time to reduce fluctuations and drive the algorithm towards minimum. Harder is to use.
I would add that the choice of plot should reflect the type of statistical test used to analyse the data. In other words, whatever characteristics of the data were used for analysis should be shown visually - so you would show means and standard errors if you used a t-test but boxplots if you used a Mann-Whitney test.
From: If some people who really believe that everything should be scientifically tested would actually walk their talk than they this comic might even show an event that actually happens.
If you want to filter the long term trend out using signal processing, why not just use a low-pass? The simplest thing I can think of would be an exponential moving average.
I like to use resampling: I repeat whatever method I used with a subsample of the data (say 80% or even 50% of the total). By doing this with many different subsamples, I get a feel for how robust the estimates are. For many estimation procedures this can be made into a real (meaning publishable) estimate of your errors.
Yes it's valid to compare negative AICc values, in the same way as you would negative AIC values. The correction factor in the AICc can become large with small sample size and relatively large number of parameters, and penalize heavier than the AIC. So positive AIC values can correspond to negative AICc values.
Python will give you all the flexibility you need. With the NumPy and you have the tools you need, and the datatypes of NumPy give you a good insight in how much memory you will use.
Unsupervised Learning Unsupervised learning is when you have no labeled data available for training. Examples of this are often clustering methods. Supervised Learning In this case your training data exists out of labeled data. The problem you solve here is often predicting the labels for data points without label. Semi-Supervised Learning In this case both labeled data and unlabeled data are used. This for example can be used in Deep belief networks, where some layers are learning the structure of the data (unsupervised) and one layer is used to make the classification (trained with supervised data)
I don't think that supervised/unsupervised is the best way to think about it. For basic data mining, it's better to think about what you are trying to do. There are four main tasks: [1] Apparently Goldman Sachs created tons of great neural networks for prediction, but then no one understood them, so they had to write other programs to try to explain the neural networks.
Teaching "Correlation does not mean causation" doesn't really help anyone because at the end of the day all deductive arguments are based in part on correlation. Human are very bad at learning not to do something. The goal should rather be constructive: Always think about alternatives to your starting assumptions that might produce the same data.
Along the lines of the mean as balance point, I like this view of the median as a balance point:
Your example is that of a. The only other context that I know of where a correlation can imply causation is that of a. Basically, a natural experiment takes advantage of an assignment of some respondents to a treatment that happens naturally in the real world. Since assignment of respondents to treatment and control groups is not controlled by the experimenter the extent to which correlation would imply causation is perhaps weaker to some extent. See the wiki links for more information controlled / natural experiments.
In addition to what has already been said above about summated scales, I'd also mention that the issue can change when analysing data at the group-level. For example, if you were examining In all these cases each aggregate measure (perhaps the mean) is based on many individual responses . In these cases the original Likert item begins to take on properties that resemble an interval scale at the aggregate level.
It is common practice to treat ordered categorical variables with many categories as continuous. Examples of this: And by "treating as continuous" I mean including the variable in a model that assumes a continuous random variable (e.g., as a dependent variable in a linear regression). I suppose the issue is how many scale points are required for this to be a reasonable simplifying assumption. A few other thoughts: References
There is also a problem with the opposite case, when lack of correlation is used as a proof for the lack of causation. This problem is nonlinearity; when looking at correlation people usually check Pearson, which is only a tip of an iceberg.
In an analysis of ranking by frequency, as with a Pareto chart and associated values (eg how many categories make up the top 80% of product faults)
The general idea is that you should scale the categorical variable in such way that the resulting continuous variables will be just the most useful. So, it is always coupled with some regression or learning procedure and so the fitting of the model is accompanied by optimization (or trying various possibilities) of ordinal variables scaling. For some more practical issues, consult the docks of R and packages.
I use the Gelman-Rubin convergence diagnostic as well. A potential problem with Gelman-Rubin is that it may mis-diagnose convergence if the shrink factor happens to be close to 1 by chance, in which case you can use a Gelman-Rubin-Brooks plot. See the paper for details. This is supported in in R (for "Output analysis and diagnostics for Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulations"). also includes other functions (such as the Geweke’s convergence diagnostic). You can also have a look at.
Sometimes this kind of models are called an ensemble. For example gives a nice overview how it works. Also the references mentioned there are very useful.
I've often found the Engineering Statistics Handbook useful. It can be found. Although I've never read it myself, I hear is very good. It's a full ~400 page ebook (also available as an actual book). As a bonus, it also teaches you R, which of course you want to learn anyways.
One useful sufficient condition for some definitions of causation: Causation can be claimed when one of the correlated variables can be controlled (we can directly set its value) and correlation is still present.
I think Graham's second paragraph gets at the heart of the matter. I suspect it's not so much technical than historical, probably due to the influence of " ", and the ease of teaching/applying the tool for non-statisticans in experimental analysis involving discrete factors, rather than delving into model building and associated tools. In statistics, ANOVA is usually taught as a special case of regression. (I think this is similar to why biostatistics is filled with a myriad of eponymous "tests" rather than emphasizing model building.)
, but why not just use linear regression allowing for interactions between your independent variables of interest? This seems more interpretable to me. Then you might read up on if your variables of interest are quantitative.
As you mentioned, AIC and BIC are methods to penalize models for having more regressor variables. A penalty function is used in these methods, which is a function of the number of parameters in the model. When n is large the two models will produce quite different results. Then the BIC applies a much larger penalty for complex models, and hence will lead to simpler models than AIC. However, as stated in:
Forward-backward is used when you want to count 'invisible things'. For example, when using E-M to improve a model via unsupervised data. I think that Petrov's paper is an example. In the technique I'm thinking of, you first train a model with annotated data with fairly coarse annotations (e.g. a tag for 'Verb'). Then you arbitrarily split the probability mass for that state in two slightly unequal quantities, and retrain, running forward-backward to maximize likelihood by redistributing mass between the two states.
You can certainly get different results simply because you train on different examples. I very much doubt that there's an algorithm or problem domain where the results of the two would differ in some predictable way.
The by LeCun et al. might get you a good part of the way there. They describe a number of loss functions and discuss what makes them "good or bad" for energy based models.
The loss function is given by the problem. It could be anything. For example, you could also penalize the used CPU time and space. In reinforcement learning, the loss function is an unknown non-deterministic function. You cannot redefine it without changing the problem.
It is a bit old, but I have found Chris Chatfield's book, to be an excellent introduction. It was how I first learned about statistics from a conceptual point of view.
I recall some discussion on this in the past; I'm not aware of any implementation of Maxwell & Delaney's approach, although it shouldn't be too difficult to do. Have a look at " " which also shows one method of addressing the sphericity issue in. You might also find of interest.
You could use the (fast:) ) discrete wavelet transform. The package wavethresh under R will do all the work. Anyway, I like the solution of @James because it is simple and seems to go straigh to the point.
Mark, the main reason of which I am aware for the use of K-S is because it arises naturally from Glivenko-Cantelli theorems in univariate empirical processes. The one reference I'd recommend is A.W.van der Vaart "Asymptotic Statistics", ch. 19. A more advanced monograph is "Weak Convergence and Empirical Processes" by Wellner and van der Vaart. I'd add two quick notes: I apologize if I can't be more specific. I hope this helps.
This is quite normal in case of machine learning -- it does not need to be optimal, it must be general.
A very popular approach is penalized logistic regression, in which one maximizes the sum of the log-likelihood and a penalization term consisting of the L1-norm ("lasso"), L2-norm ("ridge"), a combination of the two ("elastic"), or a penalty associated to groups of variables ("group lasso"). This approach has several advantages:
It sounds dodgy to me as the trend estimate will be biased near the point where you splice on the false data. An alternative approach is a nonparametric regression smoother such as loess or splines.
Thanks to the chaos in definitions of both they are effectively a synonyms. Don't believe words and look deep into the docks to find the equations.
Some googling found. Still, be aware that most of CC-ed material is share-aliked (so you must also publish your work on CC) or at least attributed (so you must add info that certain part was copied and from whom). The same works with GFDL (both SA & A), it is even worse since in principle you should print it along with the document.
There are two that I know of: Alternatively, you could use an intro textbook. is often used as a sort of handbook by forecasting practitioners working in a business environment.
" " by Marin and Robert, Springer-Verlag . "Why?": the author explain the why of the bayesian choice and the how very well. It's a practical book, but written by one of the finest bayesian thinkers alive. It's not exhaustive. Other books have that objective. It picks up a few topics that are relevant, useful, and illuminating the foundations. About "choice": if you really want to delve into bayesian foundation, Xi'an' "The Bayesian Choice" is clear, deep, essential.
You are decribing " " (represented in R a factors). These can be incorporated into almost any statistical model by being assigned levels. You would need to give more detail about your particular problem in order to be advised on a particular method. Edit If the response variable has two possible outcomes, you might consider or regression. Note: If you're not familiar with the different kinds of variables in statistics, I suggest reading the first few chapters of Andrew Gelman's " " which covers this in a very understandable manner.
Implementations of RF differ slightly. I know that Salford Systems' is supposed to be better than the in R. A description of the algorithm is in. An entire chapter (15th) is devoted to RF, and I find it actually clearer than the original paper. The tree construction algorithm is detailed on p.588; no need for me to reproduce it here, since the book is available online.
Try Random Forest; from my experience it may perform well on such kind of data, and gives you a some additional interesting information, like variable importance and object similarity measure.
The best place to find survey data related to the social sciences is the ICPSR data clearinghouse: Also, the 'survey' tag on Infochimps has many interesting and free data sets:
To fully appreciate the CLT, it should be seen. Hence the notion of the and plenty of youtube for illustration.
My book,, is written partly from a medical point of view. It focusses on the practical parts of interpreting statistical results, with almost no math.
1:10 test:train ratio is popular because it looks round, 1:9 is popular because of 10-fold CV, 1:2 is popular because it is also round and reassembles bootstrap. Sometimes one gets a test from some data-specific criteria, for instance last year for testing, years before for training. The general rule is such: the train must be large enough to so the accuracy won't drop significantly, and the test must be large enough to silence random fluctuations. Still I prefer CV, since it gives you also a distribution of error.
What I loved most with CLT is the cases when it is not applicable -- this gives me a hope that the life is a bit more interesting that Gauss curve suggests. So show him the Cauchy distribution.
Sam Savage's book is filled with good layman explanations of statistical concepts. In particular, he has a good explanation of Jensen's inequality. If the graph of your return on an investment is convex, i.e. it "smiles at you", then randomness is in your favor: your average return is greater than your return at the average.
It's seldom useful to conclude that something is "random" in the abstract. More often you want to test whether it has a certain kind of random structure. For example, you might want to test whether something has a uniform distribution, with all values in a certain range equally likely. Or you might want to test whether something has a normal distribution, etc. To test whether data has a particular distribution, you can use a goodness of fit test such as the chi square test or the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
Probability is a pure science (math), statistics is about data. They are connected since probability forms some kind of fundament for statistics, providing basic ideas.
If you have experience in other languages, these "R Rosetta Stone" videos may be useful: These are all included in the, so big +1 for his list.
Table 3.1 of answers this question with the diagram shown below. Note that all the arrows point to the right for probability, and point to the left for statistics. PROBABILITY STATISTICS
The short answer to this I've heard from is the following: The problems considered by probability and statistics are inverse to each other. In probability theory we consider some underlying process which has some randomness or uncertainty modeled by random variables, and we figure out what happens. In statistics we observe something that has happened, and try to figure out what underlying process would explain those observations.
Well my Prof. used these in Introductory probability class: 1) Shoe size are correlated with reading ability 2) Shark attack is correlated with sale of ice cream.
The probability of an event is its long-run relative frequency. So it's basically telling you the chance of, for example, getting a 'head' on the next flip of a coin, or getting a '3' on the next roll of a die. A statistic is any numerical measure computed from a sample of the population. For example, the sample mean. We use this as a statistic which estimates the population mean, which is a parameter. So basically it's giving you some kind of summary of a sample.
You don't necessarily have to go Bayesian on your model, plain maximum likelihood estimation works just fine (though has no explicit solution). Multiple R packages (eg. aod or VGAM) will fit the distribution for you. Alternatively, you can use the quasi-likelihood based overdispersed binomial model that does not assume a beta-binomial distribution, just adjusts for the overdispersion. The function with the family will fit this model in R.
I didn't find How To Measure Anything, nor Head First, particularly good. Statistics In Plain English (Urdan) is a good starter book. Once you finish that, Multivariate Data Analysis (Joseph Hair et al.) is fantastic. Good luck!
There are two main schools of thought is Statistics:. Bayes theorem is to do with the latter and can be seen as a way of understanding how the probability that a theory is true is affected by a new piece of evidence. This is known as conditional probability. You might want to look at to get a handle on the math.
See on Jeromy Anglim's blog. There are many links at that page and he updates it. He has another post with many links to videos on probability and statistics as well as linear algebra and calculus.
Just so people know, there is a Math Overflow question on the same topic. The take away message is that using the square root of the variance leads to easier maths. A similar response is given by Rich and Reed above.
I like the example of a jar of red and green jelly beans. A probabilist starts by knowing the proportion of each and asks the probability of drawing a red jelly bean. A statistician infers the proportion of red jelly beans by sampling from the jar.
The (sometimes also called the median-of-medians algorithm) will let you compute the median element in linear-time without any sorting. For large data sets this is can be quite a bit faster than log-linear sorting. However, it won't solve your memory storage problem.
Because squares can allow use of many other mathematical operations or functions more easily than absolute values. Example: squares can be integrated, differentiated, can be used in trigonometric, logarithmic and other functions, with ease.
You could use the estimated model to predict the exit times for all the people in your system. You could then compare the estimated exit times with the actual exit times (where you have this data) and compute a metric such as to assess how good your predictions are which will in turn give you a sense of model fit. See also this.
As an extension on the k-fold answer, the "usual" choice of k is either 5 or 10. The leave-one-out method has a tendency to produce models that are too conservative. FYI, here is a reference on that fact: Shao, J. , Linear Model Selection by Cross-Validation, Journal of the American Statistical Association, Vol. 88, No. 422, pp. 486-494
I hope that you find them useful---I believe that they answer your questions and provide some examples. There are also more advanced treatments on the course pages for PS 236 and PS 239 (graduate-level political science methods courses) at my website:.
The site has a number of examples in various languages (SAS, R, etc). In particular, see the following pages (look among the links titled logistic regression, categorical data analysis and generalized linear models):
I've published a method for identifying outliers in nonlinear regression, and it can be also used when fitting a linear model. HJ Motulsky and RE Brown.. BMC Bioinformatics 2006, 7:123
Reference: Box & Draper , Empirical model-building and response surfaces, Wiley, p. 424. Also: G.E.P. Box , "Robustness in the Strategy of Scientific Model Building" in Robustness in Statistics (Launer & Wilkinson eds.), p. 202.
If you're looking at system faults, you might be interested in the following paper employing machine learning techniques for fault diagnosis at eBay. It may give you a sense of what kind of data to collect or how one team approached a specific problem in a similar domain. If you're just getting started, something like or might be a good software system to start playing with your data pretty quickly. Both of them can access the data in a variety of formats (file csv, database, among others).
There is something like, which to some extent defines statistic that determines the cluster quality (for instance it is used in optimizing k). Now a possible Monte Carlo would go as follows: you generate a lot of random dataset similar to your original (for instance by shuffling values between rows in each column), cluster and obtain a distribution of mean silhouette that then may be used to test significance of silhouette in real data. Still I admin that I have never tried this idea.
-- Ronald Fisher The quotation can be read on page 17 of the article. R. A. Fisher. Presidential Address by Professor R. A. Fisher, Sc.D., F.R.S. Sankhyā: The Indian Journal of Statistics , Vol. 4, No. 1 , pp. 14-17.
I use car, doBy, Epi, ggplot2, gregmisc (gdata, gmodels, gplots, gtools), Hmisc, plyr, RCurl, RDCOMClient, reshape, RODBC, TeachingDemos, XML. a lot.
I don't know about famous, but the following is one of my favourites: -Daniel B. Wright , see. Reference: Wright, D. B. . Making friends with your data: Improving how statistics are conducted and reported1. British Journal of Educational Psychology, 73, 123-136.
I am afraid there is no; during my little adventure with such data we have just converted it to a data frame form, added some extra attributes made from neighborhoods of pixels and used standard methods. Still, packages and might be useful. For other software, I've got an impression that most of sensible applications are commercial.
I am currently writing a paper in which I have the pleasure to conduct both between and within subjects comparisons. After discussion with my supervisor we decided to run t -tests and use the pretty simple for correcting for alpha error cumulation. It controls for familwise error rate but has a greater power than the ordinary Bonferroni procedure. Procedure: Cite Holm which can be downloaded via the link at.
Have a look at the -package and its vignette. I think it should do what wan't and the vignette has very good examples and extensive references.
Most statistical packages have a function to calculate the natural logarithm of the factorial directly (e.g. the lfactorial function in R, the lnfactorial function in Stata). This allows you to include the constant term in the log-likelihood if you want.
In probability theory, we are given random variables X1, X2,. in some way, and then we study their properties, i.e. calculate probability P{ X1 B1 }, study the convergence of X1, X2,. etc. In mathematical statistics, we are given n realizations of some random variable X, and set of distributions D; the problem is to find amongst distributions from D one which is most likely to generate the data we observed.
Those are entire academic discplines so I do not think you can expect much more here than pointers to further, and more extensive, documentation as e.g. Wikipedia on and. Let me try a personal definition which may be grossly simplifying:
Operations Research (OR), sometimes called "Management Science", consists of three main topics, Optimization, Stochastic Processes, Process and Production Methodologies. OR uses statistical analysis in many contexts (for example discrete event simulations) but they should not be considered the same, additionally one of the main topics in OR is optimization (linear, and nonlinear) which can make it more clear why these two fields should be considered different There is if you are interested
One approach would be to use Bloom filters. Check project website for in Java and Python. Paper explaining method is. There is also an interesting approach to anaonymization of strings in the context of using n-grams developed by. The paper with description and sample Python code is available.
. The Art of Educated Guessing and Opportunistic Problem Solving by Sanjoy Mahajan from MIT. Available under a Creative Commons Noncommercial Share Alike license. Available as a free download on the MIT Press website (but not from the).
It covers basic linear models (ANOVA, ANCOVA, multiple regression). I can tell by personal experience that it is really really good book to get into the general framework of linear models, which are very useful in many advanced approaches (e.g., hierarchical modeling).
I really dont think so, as there are fundamental aspects in statistics that are simply overlooked in machine learning. For instance, in statistics, when fitting a model to data, the discrpeancy function that is used (e.g., G^2, RMSEA) is essential because they have different statistical properties. In machine learning, it just doesnt matter, so it is not covered at all. Of course one could argue that you could learn those things later, but IMHO, it is better to undestand and care about some issues, and possibly in the future not care about them, then the other way around. cheers
Simply CLT (nor any other theorem) does not state that every quantity in the universe is normally distributed. Indeed, statisticians often use monotonic transformations to improve normality, so they could use their favorite tools.
You are making an assumption whether you choose to use it or whether you choose against using it. For Power Law distributions it usually makes sense to look at the logarithms.
The question is a bit unclear. But, perhaps the normalization you are looking for is this: Normalized Score = 100 * (Raw Score - min(Raw_score)) / (max(Raw Score) - min (Raw Score))
Or more generically, Where is the input vector, is the output vector, and is the value in question. Srikant's answer is the same for an output range of 0 to 100. To convert back, rearrange to get:
A statistic is any sample estimation of a population characteristic is it not? Thus, I would suggest so long as inference from a characterized sample to a population is taking place what is occurring is, at least in part, statistics. Under my definition machine learning would be a discipline that makes use of statistics. For example, under many examples of machine learning it seems like part of what is happening is an attempt to take information provided to the system (a sample) in order to guess from which distribution (a population) it arose.
Of course one should never try to blindly normalize data if the data does not follow a (single) normal distribution. For example one might want to rescale observables to all be normal with, but this can only work if the data is normal and if both and are the same for all data points (e.g. doesn't depend on in a particular range).
There are many,many ways to do this.I'd suggest googling for some search terms to get started, such as "market basket analysis", or having a look at Toby Segaran's "Programming Collective Intelligence" if you know python (even if you don't - it is pretty easy to understand).
If it's on Linux, then the most straight-forward is. Beyond that, I suggest having a look at (especially with the package). More generally, have a look at: Lastly, I recommend using the package to abstract away the parallel backend in your code. That will make it more useful in the long run.
Shane is correct. Both and are winners. Slightly broader coverage of the topic is in the. This also links to a fairly recent survey article on from JSS. Lastly, a few hands-on examples and tips are in the Intro to HPC with R tutorial I give once in a while -- see my for the most recent copy from last week at useR.
Both Shane and Dirk's responses are spot on. Nevertheless, you might wanna take a look at a commercial version of R, called which is built to deal with big datasets and run on multiple cores. This software is free for academics (which might be your case, I dont know)
In the case of log-normally distributed data. the geometric mean is a better measure of central tendancy than the arithmetic mean. I mean I would guess they look at the paper and have seen a log-normal distribution. Spots. makes me think its referring to probes from a microarray.. in which case they do tend to do log-normally distributed (can't find the reference though sorry).
Yes and no. At the theoretical level, both cases can use similar techniques and frameworks (an excellent example being Gaussian process regression). The critical difference is the assumptions used to prevent overfitting (regularization): UPDATE: I didn't really think about wavelet/Fourier methods, but yes, the thresholding techniques used for such methods are aiming for sparsity in the projected space. Conversely, some high-dimensional techniques assume a projection on to a lower-dimensional manifold (e.g. principal component analysis), which is a type of smoothness assumption.
It is a heuristic, and as such, has been subjected to extensive testing. So when to trust it or not is not simple clear-cut and always-true decision. At a rough approximation, it trades off goodness of fit and number of variables ("degrees of freedom"). Much more, as usual,.
If I need to determine the number of bins programmatically I usually start out with a histogram that has way more bins than needed. Once the histogram is filled I then combine bins until I have enough entries per bin for the method I am using, e.g. if I want to model Poisson-uncertainties in a counting experiment with uncertainties from a normal distribution until I have more than something like 10 entries.
You could use the fact that the is a chi square distribution centered at the true variance. Under your null hypothesis, your test statistic would be the difference of two chi squared random variates centered at the same unknown true variance. I do not know whether the difference of two chi-squared random variates is an identifiable distribution but the above may help you to some extent.
If you want to go down the non-parametric route you could always try the squared ranks test. For the unpaired case, the assumptions for this test (taken from) are: These describe the unpaired case in detail. For the paired case you will have to change this procedure slightly. Midway down should give you an idea of where to start.
The Fisher Snedecor distribution is another name for the. The F-distribution comes from the ratio of two chi-squared variables. In regression, you use the F-distribution in the table. This table gives you information about which variables/covariates should be in your model. The v1 and v2 are called the degrees of freedom. In simple linear regression,o.e. Y = a + bx + epsilon we have a single extra variable. So v1 = p = 1 and v2 = n-p-1 = n-2. I don't use STATISTICA, so I can't give you more detailed information.
It sounds like they simply use Choice Modeling. You would use conditional logistic regression to analyze it. The people from JMP (SAS) have a nice (free) book about Design of Experiments and Choice Modeling.
I would use Fisher's Exact Test, even for large N. I wouldn't know why not. Any performance argument predates today's fast computers.
I thought this was too obvious, until I saw this! When you normalise data, make sure you always have access to the raw data after normalisation. Of course, you could break this rule if you have a good reason, e.g. storage.
Operations Research began during wartime in the 1940s with scientists and others addressing problems in Radar operations, Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW), and air operations. It is really a methodology to help decision makers choose a course of action by using an analytic framework that includes statistics, linear and non-linear programming, game theory, decision theory, etc. Statistics is one of many tools it uses.
I'm not sure why this doesn't work with. However, R does Logistic Regression just fine with its own internal functions. See GLM. Here's your model, working. So, unless you need something that from design provides, then use GLM with the binomial logit link.
The rule is very robust and works well in practice. The bin-width is set to. So the number of bins is, where is the number of observations, max is the maximum value and min is the minimum value. In base R, you can use: For other plotting libraries without this option , you can calculate binwidth as:
Usually in logistic regression you'd want "successes" to be 1 and "failures" to be 0, but so long as you are consistent in how you enter your data and interpret it, the coefficients don't really care.
This seems to be a style issue with different journals and publishers adopting different conventions (or allowing a mixed muddle of styles depending on authors' preferences). My own preference, for what it's worth, is p-value, hyphenated with no italics and no capitalization.
There do not appear to be "standards". For example: My brief, unscientific survey suggests that the most common combination is lower-case, italicized p without a hyphen.
Maybe the paper " " by Denby and Mallows will be of interest: They also mention that code in R is available on request.
Histogram density estimator is estimating the density with a sum of piecewise functions (density of a uniform). KDE is using a sum of smooth function (gaussian is an example) (as long as they are positive they can be transformed into a density by normalization) The use of " mixture " in statistic is about convex combination of densities.
You can do this with mixture modeling. There are a number of R packages on CRAN for doing this. Search for "mixture" at
My first answer was full of errors. Here is a corrected version: The correct way to test is as follows: z = (mean(S) - mu) / (stdev(S) / sqrt (n) ) See: Note the following:
I really like first sentence from I think you can get really good understanding about degrees of freedom from reading this chapter. An excerpt:
Or simply: the number of elements in a numerical array that you're allowed to change so that the value of the statistic remains unchanged. you can change, for instance, x and y at random, but you cannot change z (you can, but not at random, therefore you're not free to change it - see Harvey's comment), 'cause you'll change the value of the statistic . So, in this case df = 2.
I am not sure how far this would be relevant to what you want to do but see the paper on adaptive question design called. The goal of the algorithm is to ask the next question from a survey respondent based on his/her previous questions and answers. The data does not arrive as fast as stock prices but nevertheless latency is an issue as most survey respondents expect the next question to appear within a few seconds.
RODBC for accessing data from databases, sqldf for performing simple SQL queries on dataframes (although I am forcing myself to use native R commands), and ggplot2 and plyr
It is going to depend a lot on what exactly you are looking for, but start at. There are many others that can be found by googling "data stream algorithms", or following the references in the paper.
Functional Data often involves different question. I've been reading Functional Data Analysis, Ramsey and Silverman, and they spend a lot of times discussing curve registration, warping functions, and estimating derivatives of curves. These tend to be very different questions than those asked by people interested in studying high-dimensional data.
Interesting question. What do you mean by weight? I would be inclined to do a bootstrap.pick your favorite statistic (i.e. Fisher's Exact), and compute it on your data. Then assign new cells to each instance according to your null hypothesis, and repeat the process 999 times. This should give a pretty good empirical distribution for your test statistic under the null hypothesis, and allow easy computation of your p-value!
The other issue is that you put in your data, and the algorithm learns the weights and the Beta_0 for you.I don't know if Excel can do logistic regression.if it doesn't, I'd be inclined to use R to learn your model (and predict future cases for you!).
What you are looking for is called regression; there are a lot of methods you can do it, both statistical and machine learning ones. If you want to find f, you must use statistics; in that case you must first assume that f is of some form, like f:y=a*x+b and then use some regression method to fit the parameters. The plot suggests there are a lot of outliers (elements that does not follow f(x)); you may need robust regression to get rid of them.
And just eyeballing the data, you are probably going to want to transform the data, as (at least to me) it looks skewed. Looking at the histograms of the two variables should suggest which transforms may be beneficial. As suggested by mbq, more text.
Normality seems to be strongly violated at least by your y variable. I would log transform y to see if that cleans things up a bit. Then, fit a regression to The formula the regression will return will be of the form which you can transform back to the original scale by
I don't think there is a fundamental idea around parameter estimation in Machine Learning. The ML crowd will happily maximize the likelihood or the posterior, as long as the algorithms are efficient and predict "accurately". The focus is on computation, and results from statistics are widely used. If you're looking for fundamental ideas in general, then in computational learning theory, is central; in statistical learning theory,; and there are other areas (for example, see the post by John Langford). On bridging statistics/ML, the divide seems exagerrated. I liked gappy's to the "Two Cultures" question.
I think a simple chi-squared test will do the trick. Do you have 1,000,000 observations for both control and test? If so, your table of observations will be (in R code) Edit: Woops! Left off a zero! And chi-squared test will be Which returns chi-squared = 2.7692, df = 1, p-value = 0.0961, which is not statistically significant at the p < 0.05 level. I'd be surprised if these could be clinically significant anyway.
Continuous (interval); this is a method how to convert ordinal data to something that may have some distribution that makes sense.
You may be interested in the following link: where the UCLA Statistical Computing unit of the UCLA has very nice screen-casts available. I have found them very useful in the past. They function essentially as lectures. Top-quality teaching.
I have done very well with reading the official documentation. It is well-written, sometimes injected with humour and, if you're willing to spend the time to learn Stata properly, is an absolute goldmine.
Though quantum probability and negative probability models are quite interesting, this is hardly exhaustive of nonstandard models of probability. There are for instance,, and models that violate Kolmogorov's countable additivity axiom, and more. As an aside, the book may be more properly called 'Models of Probability'., generally involve characterizing the competing understandings of probability as logically prescribed values, limiting frequencies, propensities, subjective beliefs, etc. Models, or axiomatizations can certainly be motivated by these understandings, but the problem of creating a variant system is different than arguing for a particular interpretation.
BBC's is often concerned with numeracy and statistical literacy issues. But it's not specifically about statistics. Their page has some background.
One book that's freely available is "The Elements of Statistical Learning" by Hastie, Tibshirani, and Friedman (published by Springer):. Another fantastic source, although it isn't a book, is Andrew Ng's Machine Learning course on Coursera. This has a much more applied-focus than the above book, and Prof. Ng does a great job of explaining the thinking behind several different machine learning algorithms/situations.
To answer this question you have to answer which kind of compromise you can afford. RDBMs implements. This is expensive in terms of resources. There are no NoSQL solutions which are ACID. See to dive deep into these ideas. So you have to understand each compromise given by each solution and choose the one which is the most appropriate for your problem.
Is it the time to move to NoSQL will depends on 2 things: SQL databases excel when the data is well structured (e.g. when it can be modeled as a table, an Excel spreadsheet, or a set of rows with a fixed number of columns). Also good when you need to do a lot of table joins (which it sounds like you do). NoSQL databases excel when the data is un-structured beyond key-value pairs. Performance wise, you gotta ask yourself one question: is your current SQL solution slow? If not, go with the " " principle.
Actually this is coming around. In the book R in a Nutshell there is even a section on using R with Hadoop for big data processing. There are some work arounds that need to be done because R does all it's work in memory, so you are basically limited to the amount of RAM you have available to you. A mature project for R and Hadoop is RHadoop has been divided into several sub-projects, rhdfs, rhbase, rmr2, plyrmr, and quickcheck .
The main problem with using R for large data sets is the RAM constraint. The reason behind keeping all the data in RAM is that it provides much faster access and data manipulations than would storing on HDDs. If you are willing to take a hit on performance, then yes, it is quite practical to work with.
You can set up a cronjob on a Linux system. These are run at the set time, if the computer is on. To do so, open a terminal and type: And add: Source:
For windows, use the task scheduler to set the task to run for example daily at 4:00 AM It gives you many other options regarding frequency etc.
R performs all computation in-memory so you can't perform operation on a dataset that is larger than available RAM amount. However there are some libraries that allow bigdata processing using R and one of popular libraries for bigdata processing like Hadoop.
To be reproducible without being just a replication, you would need to redo the experiment with new data, following the same technique as before. The work flow is not as important as the techniques used. Sample data in the same way, use the same type of models. It doesn't matter if you switch from one language to another, so long as the models and the data manipulations are the same. This type of replication will show that the results you got in the first experiment are less likely to be a fluke than they were earlier.
One algorithm that can be used for this is the. Basically: It is good practice to repeat this algorithm several times, then choose the outcome that minimizes distances between the points of each cluster i and the center. Of course, you have to know to start here; you can use cross-validation to choose this parameter, though.
You shouldn't consider the p-value out of context. One rather basic point (as illustrated by) is that you need to consider how many tests you're actually doing. Obviously, you shouldn't be shocked to see p < 0.05 for one out of 20 tests, even if the null hypothesis is true every time. A more subtle example of this occurs in high-energy physics, and is known as the. The larger the parameter space you search for a signal that might represent a new particle, the more likely you are to see an apparent signal that's really just due to random fluctuations.
One thing you should be aware of is the sample size you are using. Very large samples, such as economists using census data, will lead to deflated p-values. This paper covers some of the issues.
There is no replacement in the strict sense of the word. Instead you should look at other measures. The other measures you look at depend on what you type of problem you are solving. In general, if you have a small p-value, also consider the magnitude of the effect size. It may be highly statistically significant but in practice meaningless. It is also helpful to report the confidence interval of the effect size. I would consider as mentoned in DanC's answer to.
Simply set, 'parallel' means running concurrently on distinct resources (CPUs), while 'distributed' means running across distinct computers, involving issues related to networks. Parallel computing using for instance is not distributed, while parallel computing with is often distributed. Being in a 'distributed but not parallel' setting would mean under-using resources so it is seldom encountered but it is conceptually possible.
I posted a pretty detailed answer on stackoverflow about when it is appropriate to use relational vs document (or NoSQL) database, here: Summary:
Is it valid to use click frequency, then yes. Is it valid to use only the click frequency, then probably no. Search relevance is much more complicated than just one metric.. Extending this answer beyond a simple yes/no would likely make the answer far too broad (and opinionated)
arXiv has an but if you want something for paid journals it will be hard to come by without paying an indexer like pubmed or elsevier or the like.
It depends on your data and what you're doing with it. For example, if the processing you have to do requires transactions to synchronize across nodes, it will likely be faster to use transactions implemented in an RDBMS rather than implementing it yourself on top of NoSQL databases which don't support it natively.
Please have a look at my answer here: Short version: As to how to learn it: fire up a MongoDB image on AWS, or DynamoDB, and have fun!
Look it up on: If you get a single exact title match then you have probably found the right article, and can fill in the rest of the info from there. Both give you download links and bibtex-style output. What you would likely want to do though to get perfect metadata is download and parse the pdf (if any) and look for DOI-style identifier. Please be nice and rate-limit your requests if you do this.
Simply put: Examples of feature extraction: extraction of contours in images, extraction of digrams from a text, extraction of phonemes from recording of spoken text, etc. Feature extraction involves a transformation of the features, which often is not reversible because some information is lost in the process of dimensionality reduction.
is a free community driven database that spans many interesting topics and contains about 2,5 billion facts in machine readable format. It is also have good API to perform data queries. is another compiled list of open data sets
There are many openly available data sets, one many people often overlook is. As mentioned previously Freebase is great, so are all the examples posted by @Rubens
Guessing it's likely you've seen this and the related, which is related to these papers: And this set of code on GitHub for. If you check the "read me" on GitHub here, you'll notice that is listed, so it might be worth sending him an email about your questions, or even inviting him to reply to this question too.
Another suggestion is to test the. As an added bonus, the weights (coefficients) of the model will give you an idea of which sites are age-distriminant. Sklearn offers the package that is designed to handle sparse data as well. As mentionned in the comments, in the present case, with more input variables than samples, you need to regularize the model (with use the argument).
My first guess is to. And particularly:. What you need is to add time dimension to the "Pages" section to be able to see network change dynamics. This is screen from the link above.
If you take a look over the specifications of PMML which you can find you can see on the left menu what options you have (like ModelTree, NaiveBayes, Neural Nets and so on).
You can use map reduce algorithms in Hadoop without programming them in Java. It is called streaming and works like Linux piping. If you believe that you can port your functions to read and write to terminal, it should work nicely. is example blog post which shows how to use map reduce functions written in Python in Hadoop.
It depends, of course, on the focus of the company: commerce, service, etc. In adition to the use cases you suggested, some other use cases would be:
C45 made by Quinlan is able to produce rule for prediction. Check this page. I know that in its name is J48. I have no idea which are implementations in R or Python. Anyway, from this kind of decision tree you should be able to infer rules for prediction. Later edit Also you might be interested in algorithms for directly inferring rules for classification. RIPPER is one, which again in Weka it received a different name JRip. See the original paper for RIPPER:
Also, there seem to be a very comprehensive list of data science use cases by function and by vertical on Kaggle -
Update: Kaggle.com, a home of modern data science & machine learning enthusiasts:), opened. In addition to the listed sources. Some social network data sets: There are plenty of sources listed at Stats SE:
Never done stuff on that scale, but as no-one else has jumped in yet have you seen these two papers that discuss non-commercial solutions? Symphony and COIN-OR seem to be the dominant suggestions. Linderoth, Jeffrey T., and Andrea Lodi. "MILP software." Wiley encyclopedia of operations research and management science . Linderoth, Jeffrey T., and Ted K. Ralphs. "Noncommercial software for mixed-integer linear programming." Integer programming: theory and practice 3 : 253-303.
Assuming symmetric Dirichlet distributions (for simplicity), a low alpha value places more weight on having each document composed of only a few dominant topics (whereas a high value will return many more relatively dominant topics). Similarly, a low beta value places more weight on having each topic composed of only a few dominant words.
It looks like this (or very similar data set) is used for Coursera courses. Cleaning this dataset is task for, but it is also used for case study for. Video from this case study is available in videos for week 4 of EDA course-ware. It might help you with starting with this data.
Since you have 39,949 variables, the covariance matrix would have about 1.6 billion elements . That is likely why you are getting that error.
It's actually even simpler than that, from what you describe---you're just looking for a basic classification tree algorithm (so no need for slightly more complex variants like C4.5 which are optimized for prediction accuracy). The canonical text is. This is readily implemented in and.
is a repository of public available datasets. Its free plan offers public data search, with 10k API calls per month. Not all public databases are listed, but the list is enough for common cases. I used it for academic research and it saved me a lot of time. Another interesting source of data is the, containing data and tools to collect them, about the United States (members of Congress, geographic shapes…).
In general, you don't want to use XML tags to tag documents in this way because tags may overlap., and similar NLP frameworks denote the tags separate from the text. Each tag, such as,, etc. is stored as the position that the tag begins and the position that it ends. So, for the tag, it would be stored as starting a position 11 and ending at position 17.
There are a few ways to achieve your "master confusion matrix". There are other statistics that are possible to report as well. You can redo the method to keep track of individual classifications. Then we can say other important stats like '% of classifications that stay the same and are accurate', etc.
To complete Damien's answer, an example of dimensionality reduction in NLP is a, where you represent the document by a vector indicating the weights of its constituent topics.
No-one knows since no-one's completed one of these PhD programs yet! However, I would look at the syllabus and the teachers to base my decision. It all depends on what you want to do; industry or academia?
I think this question assumes a false premise. As a student at NYU, I only know of a Masters in Data Science. You linked to a page that confirms this. It's hard to gauge the benefit of a program that doesn't exist yet.
It seems to me that the premise of a PhD is to expand knowledge in some little slice of the world. Since a "data scientist" is by nature is somewhat of a jack-of-all-trades it does seem a little odd to me. A masters program seems much more appropriate. What do you hope to gain from a PhD? If the rigor scares (or bores) you, then what about a more applied area? Signal processing, robotics, applied physics, operations research, etc.
A variety of methods are available to the user. The support documentation gives walkthroughs and tips for when one or another model is most appropriate. shows the following learning methods: EDIT: I don't see any specific information about the algorithms, though. For example, does the tree model use information gain or gini index for splits?
You should learn Hadoop if you want to be work as data scientist, but maybe before starting with Hadoop you should read something about ETL or Big Data. this book could be a good starting point: Hope it helps and good luck!
Thrift is generally faster because the data being exchanged is smaller. Stargate offers a web service which is an integration method that is widely supported, which is a concern when you are working with commercial products with limited integration possibilities. In a closed environment where everything is controlled, I would prefer Thrift. If I'm exposing data to external teams or systems I would prefer Stargate.
I would like to point to. It is an initiative of the Open Knowledge Foundation based on contributions from open data advocates and experts around the world. The value of Open data Census is open, community driven, and systematic effort to collect and update the database of open datasets globally on country and, in some cases,. Also, it presents an opportunity to compare different countries and cities on in selected areas of interest.
Unfortunately, parallelization is not yet implemented in pandas. You can join if you want to participate in the development of this feature. I don't know any "magic unicorn package" for this purposes, so the best thing will be write your own solution. But if you still don't want to spend time on that and want to learn something new – you can try the two methods built into MongoDB (map reduce and agg framework). See.
You can also give the Expectation Maximization clustering algorithm a try. It can work on categorical data and will give you a statistical likelihood of which categorical value (or values) a cluster is most likely to take on.
I think is a good starting point. You can do a bunch of stuff like supervised learning or clustering and easily compare a large set of algorithms na methodologies. Weka's manual is actually a book on machine learning and data mining that can be used as introductory material.
Definitely they can. I can target you to a. Once I used it for soccer league results prediction algorithm implementation, primarily aiming at having some value against bookmakers. From paper's abstract: Keywords: Citation:
Machine learning and statistical techniques can improve the forecast, but nobody can predict the real result. There was a kaggle competition a few month ago about. You can read the Competition Forum to get a better idea on what people did and what results did they achieve.
It has been shown before that machine learning techniques can be applied for predicting sport results. Simple google search should give you a bunch of results. However, it has also been showed (for NFL btw) that very complex predictive models, simple predictive models, questioning people, or crowd knowledge by utilising betting info, they all perform more or less the same. Source: " ", Chapter 7, by Duncan Watts.
I would recommend to start with some MOOC on machine learning. For example Andrew Ng's at coursera. You should also take a look at application. It has a graphical interface and probably it is easier to understand some ML techniques using it.
You can apply data science techniques to data on one machine so the answer to the question as the OP phrased it, is no.
One benefit is wide support - C, Java, Perl, Python, and R all have HDF5 bindings. Another benefit is speed. I haven't ever seen it benchmarked, but HDF is supposed to be faster than SQL databases. I understand that it is very good when used with both large sets of scientific data and time series data - network monitoring, usage tracking, etc. I don't believe there is a size limitation for HDF files (although OS limits would still apply.
For time series data in particular, is an excellent resource -- an easily browsable directory of (mostly) clean time series. One of their coolest features is -- i.e. financial data that can be edited wiki-style, and isn't encumbered by licensing.
Not all government data is listed on data.gov - put together a back in February describing sets of available data.
Assuming you're familiar with programming I would recommend looking at. It has especially nice help pages that can serve as mini-tutorials/a quick tour through machine learning. Pick an area you find interesting and work through the examples.
There is also another resource provided by The Guardian, the British Daily on their website. The datasets published by the Guardian Datablog are all hosted. Datasets related to Football Premier League Clubs' accounts, Inflation and GDP details of UK, Grammy awards data etc. The datasets are available at Some more resources. Some of the datasets are in R format or R commads exist for directly importing data to R.
Yes. Why not?! With so much of data being recorded in each sport in each game, smart use of data could lead us to obtain important insights regarding player performance. Some examples: So, yes, statistical analysis of the player records can give us insights about which players are more likely to perform but not which players will perform. So, machine learning, a close cousin of statistical analysis will be proving to be a game changer.
The goal determines the features, so I would initially take as many as possible, then use cross validation to select the optimal subset. My educated guess is that a Markov model would work. If you discretize the action space (e.g., select this menu item, press that button, etc.), you can predict the next action based on the past ones. It's a sequence or problem. For commercial offerings, search app analytics.
I found the pluralsight course a great resource so start with. It uses the to quickly explore different ml techniques.
Your time would probably be better spent on Kaggle than in a PhD program. When you read the stories by winners you'll see that it takes a large amount of practice and the winners are not just experts of one single method. On the other hand, being active and having a plan in a PhD program can get you connections that you otherwise would probably not get. I guess the real question is for you - what are the reasons for wanting a job at a top company?
Topological Data Analysis is a method explicitly designed for the setting you describe. Rather than a global distance metric, it relies only on a local metric of proximity or neighborhood. See: and. You can find additional resources at the website for Ayasdi.
This isn't my area of specialty and I'm not familiar with Moses, but I found this after some searching. I think you are looking for GIZA++. You'll see GIZA++ listed in the "Training" section (left menu) on the Moses home page, as the second step. GIZA++ is briefly described in tutorial fashion. Here are a few tutorial PowerPoint slides:
Therriault, really happy to hear you are using Vertica! Full disclosure, I am the chief data scientist there:). The workflow you describe is exactly what I encounter quite frequently and I am a true believer in preprocessing those very large datasets in the database prior to any pyODBC and pandas work. I'd suggest creating a view or table via a file based query just to ensure reproducible work. Good Luck
If you already know R Studio, then the caret package is a good place to start. Here are some tutorials: With R and caret you can easily load and splice data sets, feature reduction, principal component analysis, and train and predict using various algorithms.
If you can reproduce the 6x3 grid of graphs from the banner of the page then you will have learnt some ML and some Python. You didn't mention a language. Python is easy enough to learn very quickly, and scikit-learn has a wide range of algorithms implemented. Then try on your own data!
There are so many ways to go wrong with a neural net that it's going to be difficult to debug. Also, to address your intuition, each additional hidden layer makes learning much harder. With that said, here are some possibilities: Training neural nets takes a lot of practice, luck, and patience. Good luck.
There is no "better" language. I have tried both of them and I am comfortable with Python so I work with Python only. Though I am still learning stuff, but I haven't encounter any roadblock with Python till now. The good thing about Python is community is too good and you can get a lot of help on the Internet easily. Other than that, I would say go with the language you like not the one people recommend.
The certification programs you mentioned are really entry level courses. Personally, I think these certificates show only person's persistence and they can be only useful to those who is applying for internships, not the real data science jobs.
I would add to what others have said till now. There is no single answer that one language is better than other. Having said that, R has a better community for data exploration and learning. It has extensive visualization capabilities. Python, on the other hand, has become better at data handling since introduction of pandas. Learning and development time is very less in Python, as compared to R (R being a low level language). I think it ultimately boils down to the eco-system you are in and personal preferences. For more details, you can look at this comparison.
I did the first 2 courses and I'm planning to do all the others too. If you don't know R, it's a really good program. There are assignments and quizzes every week. Many people find some courses very difficult. You are going to have hard time if you don't have any programming experience (even if they say it's not required). Just remember.. it's not because you can drive a car that you are a F1 pilot;)
Some real important differences to consider when you are choosing R or Python over one another: So, both the languages are equally good. Therefore, depending upon your domain and the place you work, you have to smartly choose the right language. The technology world usually prefers using a single language. Business users (marketing analytics, retail analytics) usually go with statistical programming languages like R, since they frequently do quick prototyping and build visualisations (which is faster done in R than Python).
There's plenty. If you've ever used ggplot2 in R and want to do that in. If you want to use a similar visualisation grammar (Vega) and go via. Or if you want the full-on 3d:.
You have to first make it clear what do you mean by "learn Hadoop". If you mean using Hadoop, such as learning to program in MapReduce, then most probably it is a good idea. But fundamental knowledge (database, machine learning, statistics) may play a bigger role as time goes on.
Increasing the number of hidden layers for a standard neural network actually won't improve results in a majority of cases. Changing the size of the hidden layer will. This fact (that the number of hidden layers does very little) has actually was noted historically and is the motivation behind the field of deep learning. Deep learning is effectively clever ways of training multilayer neural networks by, for example, isolating subsets of features when training different layers. Good introductory video on this topic on
Introductory: Digging deeper: Some special interest examples: Broader reference works on machine learning (not really what you asked for, but for completeness): Bonus paper:
In addition to the courses and tutorials posted, I would suggest something a bit more 'hands on': has some introductory competitions that might pique your interest (most people start with the Titanic competition). And there's a large variety of subjects to explore and compete in when you want to get more experience.
Not sure about the cloud era one, but one of my friends joined the John Hopkins one and in his words it's "brilliant to get you started". It has also been recommended by a lot of people. I am planning to join it in few weeks. As far as seriousness is concerned, I don't think these certifications are gonna help you land a job, but they sure will help you learn.
That's because something called. The overfitted model means that we will have more complex decision boundary if we give more variance on model. The thing is, not only too simple models but also complex models are likely to have dis-classified result on unseen data. Consequently, over-fitted model is not good as under-fitted model. That's why overfitting is bad and we need to fit the model somewhere in the middle.
Can't you create a hash for each classes, and then merge rows by rows, field by field only the classes where the hash changed? It should be faster if most of the classes don't change.. Or a hash of each rows or maybe columns.. depending on how the data normally change..
If you know R and it's ggplot library, you could try ggplot for python: I like it, because I do work in R and python, and both are virtually identical. But if you are not familiar you have to deal with a very "unpythonic" syntax. But I think it's an easy library overall.
Just head to kaggle.com; it'll keep you busy for a long time. For open data there's the. In fact, there's a whole devoted to this; look there.
The is an organization that is focused on opening up and encouraging non-partisan analysis of government data. There is a ton of analysis out there in the wild that can be used for comparison, and a wide variety of topics. They provide and for accessing data, and have helped push to make data available in places like. One interesting project is. You can get as well as access to real time data. You might also want to take a look at one of our more popular questions:.
From our perspective on here, the big benefit of S3 is the ease of accessing the data from within EC2. Google Drive is directly accessible from the Google Cloud platform. There are a host of other differences that might matter depending on your usage requirements, but that's the one that would matter most around here. The only other difference I can think of that would matter to the DS community is that when you are sharing something, you have no control of the address of a given file on google drive.
For low parameters, pretty limited sample size, and a binary classifier logistic regression should be plenty powerful enough. You can use a more advanced algorithm but it's probably overkill.
When categorical variables are in the mix, I reach for Random Decision Forests, as it handles categorical variables directly without the 1-of-n encoding transformation. This loses less information.
According to me, all the factors, you have mentioned are superficial in nature. You have not considered the core of tool selection. In this case, there are 2 aspects, you mentioned: At this stage, you can be flexible with what language to learn, since you are starting from scratch. Hope this helps.
I like a multiple step strategy: That should suffice to ensure a clean "one - off " job. But for a time series as you seem to have, I would add that you should check for values out of range, impossible combinations etc. For me, most scripts that have reached step 4 are probably bug free - and they will stay that way unless something changes. And most often, the data are changing - and that is something which should be checked for every run. Writing code for that can be time consuming and annoying, but it beats subtle errors due to data entry errors.
The problem with models like KNN is that they do not take into account seasonality (time-dependent variations in trend). To take those into account, you should use Time Series analysis. For count data, such as yours, you can use generalized linear auto-regressive moving average models (GLARMA). Fortunately, there is an R package that implements them . The is a good resource for the theory behind the tool.
It is hard to answer this question without knowing more about the data. That said, I would offer the following advice: Most machine learning techniques can handle mixed-type data. Tree based methods (such as AdaBoost and Random Forests) do well with this type of data. The more important issue is actually the dimensionality, about which you are correct to be concerned. I would suggest that you do something to reduce that dimensionality. For example, look for the words or phrases that separate the data the best and discard the other words (note: tree based methods do this automatically).
An example from germany: Xing a site similar to linkedin but limited to german speaking countries. Link to it's developer central: Provides access to: User profiles, Conversations between users (limited to the user itself), Job advertisings, Contacts and Contacts of Contacts, news from the network and some geolocation api. Yes it has an api, but I did not find information about the rate. But it seems to me, that some information is limited to the consent of the user.
This critique is no longer justified: While it is true that most of the standard and most respected R libraries were restricted to in-memory computations, there is a growing number of specialized libraries to deal with data that doesn't fit into memory. For instance, for random forests on large datasets, you have the library. More info here: Another area of growth is R's connectedness to big data environments like hadoop, which opens another world of possibilities.
It's not a social network per se, but Stackexchange publish their entire database dump periodically: You can extract some social information by analyzing which users ask and answer to each other. One nice thing is that since posts are tagged, you can analyze sub-communities easily.
One of the most detailed and clear explanations of setting up a complex analytics pipeline is from the folks over at. They give detailed motivations of each of the architecture choices for collection, transportation, coordination, processing, storage, and querying their data. Compelling reading! Find it and.
I personally have used for a good number of professional projects, and while, as Dirk mentioned, this is purely conjecture, I can give some insights on where Julia really stands out. The question of whether or not these reasons will prove enough to have succeed as a language is anyone's guess. Again, can't say what this means for the future, but these are just a couple of relevant points when it comes to evaluating in my opinion.
Not sure about the YARN, but I think that Spark makes a real difference compared to Hadoop (advertised as 100 times faster) if data can fit nicely in the memory of the computational nodes. Simply because it avoids hard disk access. If data doesn't fit memory there's still some gain because of buffering.
Online k-means (more commonly known as) and traditional k-means are very similar. The difference is that online k-means allows you to update the model as new data is received. Online k-means should be used when you expect the data to be received one by one (or maybe in chunks). This allows you to update your model as you get more information about it. The drawback of this method is that it is dependent on the order in which the data is received .
Some standard datasets for text classification are the 20-News group, Reuters (with 8 and 52 classes) and WebKb. You can find all of them.
I suggest this tutorial on ordered logit: It showcases the use of in the package, and also explains the assumptions and how to interpret the results.
One of the most widely used test collection for text categorization research (link below). I've used many times. Enjoy your exploration:) or
One fairly powerful R package for regression with an ordinal categorical response is VGAM, on the CRAN. The vignette contains some examples of ordinal regression, but admittedly I have never tried it on such a large dataset, so I cannot estimate how long it may take. You may find some additional material about VGAM on the author's. Alternatively you could take a look at Laura Thompson's to Agresti's book "Categorical Data Analysis". Chapter 7 of Thompson's book describes cumulative logit models, which are frequently used with ordinal responses. Hope this helps!
In graph theory a clique indicates a fully connected set of nodes:, a p-clique simply indicates a clique comoprised of p nodes. A k-clique is an undirected graph and a number k, and the output is a clique of size k if one exists.
You could try Neural Network. You can find 2 great explanations on how to apply NN on time series and. Note that it is best practice to: Because what you are looking for is a regression problem, the activation functions should be and not or and you aim to minimize the (as opposition to the maximization of the in a classification problem).
A good list of publicly available social network datasets can be found on the Stanford Network Analysis Project website: The site contains internet social network data (Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus), Citation networks for academic journals, co-purchasing networks from Amazon and several others kinds of networks. They have directed, undirected, and bipartite graphs and all datasets are snapshots that can be downloaded in compressed form.
A GLM is absolutely a statistical model, but statistical models and machine learning techniques are not mutually exclusive. In general, statistics is more concerned with inferring parameters, whereas in machine learning, prediction is the ultimate goal.
Have you considered a frequency-based approach exploiting simple word co-occurence in corpora? At least, that's what I've seen most folks use for this. I think it might be covered briefly in Manning and Schütze's book, and I seem to remember something like this as a homework assignment back in grad school. More background. For this step: There are several semantic similarity metrics you could look into. 's a link to some slides I put together for a class project using a few of these similarity metrics in WordNet.
The best language depends on what you want to do. First remark: don't limit yourself to one language. Learning a new language is always a good thing, but at some point you will need to choose. Facilities offered by the language itself are an obvious thing to keep into account but in my opinion the following are more important: I am aware that most of my points favor established languages. This is from a 'get-things-done' perspective. That said, I personally believe it is far better to become proficient in a low level language and a high level language:
A couple of words about social networks APIs. About a year ago I wrote a review of popular social networks’ APIs for researchers. Unfortunately, it is in Russian. Here is a summary: Twitter Facebook Instagram Foursquare Google+ And out-of-competition: I reviewed social networks for Russian readers, and #1 network here is. It’s translated to many languages, but popular only in Russia and other CIS countries. API docs link:. And from my point of view, it’s the best choice for homebrew social media research. At least, in Russia. That’s why:
I like Amir Ali Akbari's suggestions, and I'll add a few of my own, focusing on topics and skills that are not adequately covered in most machine learning and data analysis books that focus on math and/or programming. Data Cleaning: Bayesian Data Analysis (alternative to Fisher-style Null Hypothesis Significance Testing): Inference in the face of uncertainty, incompleteness, contradictions, ambiguity, imprecision, ignorance, etc.: Experiments: Simulation: Expert elicitation, probabilistic estimation:
If you do not have a gradient available, but the problem is convex, you can use the. It is available in most optimization packages, for example in.
Conjugate Gradient -- the cg in Function MINimization (nonlinear) Conjugate Gradiant -- requires you to have a gradient function (or approximation) since that is a critical part of the algorithm itself: it needs to find the steepest descent direction quickly. implements Nelder-Mead, a nonlinear gradient-free method. Its convergence properties are not anywhere near as good. What is your cost function? Are there approximations that are differentiable (pref. twice so you can use the very powerful quasi-Newton methods)?
I have been able to optimize very strange functions with simulated annealing, and it does not require a gradient. Instead, it uses random numbers in a way very similar to Markov Chain Monte Carlo, which helps it avoid getting stuck in local optima. A decent explanation that gives the intuition behind it can be found in this lecture:. scipy 0.14 includes this algorithm in its optimization module:.
In order to understand the variety of ways machine learning can be integrated into production applications, I think it is useful to look at open source projects and papers/blog posts from companies describing their infrastructure. The common theme that these systems have is the separation of model training from model application. In production systems, model application needs to be fast, on the order of 100s of ms, but there is more freedom in how frequently fitted model parameters (or equivalent) need to be updated. People use a wide range of solutions for model training and deployment:
Chapter 1 of Practical Data Science with R has a great breakdown of the data science process, including team roles and how they relate to specific tasks. The book follows the models laid out in the chapter by referencing which stages/personnel this or that particular task would be performed by.
If your goal is to transform your matrix into a number (your similarity measure), you may want to use a. For instance, using the on your example would return 1.488086.
As I understood, Document 1 and Document 2 may have different number of keys. And you wand to get final similarity evaluation between 0 and 1. If so, I would propose following algorithm: Final estimation would be equal to 1, if both documents have identical length, and every word from Doc 1 has equivalent in Doc 2. You haven't mentioned software, you are using, but here is R example of function, computing such similarity (it takes object of class matrix as input): In python -
I like following certain tags on, as well as the StackOverflow. is also pretty cool, it has several subsections devoted to stats and ML.
What you're trying to do here is reduce the dimensionality of your features. You can search for dimensionality reduction to get several options, but one very popular technique is principal components analysis (PCA). Principal components are not interpretable like the options you've mentioned, but they do a good job of summarizing all of the information.
Feature extraction is always a challenge and the less addressed topic in literature, since it's widely application dependant. Some ideas you can try:
At first glance, you need to extract features from your time series - x. One possible approach is to compute summary metrics: average, dispersion, etc. But doing so, you will loose all time-series related information. But data, extracted from curve shape may be quite useful. I recommend you to look through article, where authors propose algorithm for time series clustering. Hope, it will be useful. Additionally to such clustering you can add summary statistics to your feature list.
As a rule of thumb I always propose three different options: The selection of specific methods or strategies will depend enormously on the data.
I suggest the use of Hidden Markov Models, with two possible states: high levels and low levels. This technique might be helpful to decode your signal. Probably you would need a specific HMM for each codification. If noise is an issue an FIR filter with a Blackman-Harris window function would allow you to isolate the frequency you're concerned with.
Is it a bird? Is it a cat? We have black-and-white cat-sized! magpies here. so that would fail. First thing would be to exclude all areas that are green, cats are seldom green. Then compare the rest to a reference image to remove static things like stones and stairs. Detecting objects of a minimum size should be possible, but for a classification the resolution is too low. Could be also your neighbor testing his new remote controlled drone. With two cameras you could do a 3d mapping of the objects and eliminate flying objects.
Personally, I think Netflix got it right. Break it down into a confidence rating from 1-5 and show your recommendations based on the number of yellow stars. It doesn't have to be stars, but those icon based graphs are very easy to interpret and get the point across clearly.
OpenCV's will find objects moving about your harden. After that you could use a classifier or shape analysis to differentiate between cats, people, trees and etc.
This is a very interesting problem. I faced a similar one by analyzing the pictures users upload to the social network. I did the following approach: This approach is semi-supervised learning and I recommended it in case you only have some data labeled. Please, notice that on a social network, people usually lie about the age (just for fun, or sometimes because they want to camuflate themselves on the social net).
This is a very good question and a common situation. In my opinion there are three different factors that must be controlled: So, answering your question, if you want to compare different experiments and state to what extent your distributed algorithm outperforms others, you should try to replicate as accurate as possible the same environment (data and architecture) where the experiments were carried out. If this is not possible, my suggestion is that you test your algorithm with public data and cloud architecture so that you become a referent as you are facilitating the comparison of future algorithms.
You should try arules package in R. It allows you to create not only the association rules but also to specify the length of each rule, the importance of each rule and also you can filter them, which is what you are looking for (try the rhs command of this package).
Though it's easy to say, it's better to treat the environment that changes as variables, describe/estimate your algorithm's performance base on these variables. And hopefully others will do the same. Of interest,.
I have read some about it and I had in mind. This blog deals with the prediction of a NFL match after the half time is already over. The prediction is 80% accurate with simple GLM model. I do not know if that is suitable for soccer.
In my opinion, there are solutions to deal with categorical data in clustering. R comes with a specific distance for categorical data. This distance is called and it works pretty well.
Some research from try to predict twitter user's age based on their tweets. Maybe you find them useful. They use logistic and linear regression.
I usually take a two-step approach And when you start building models, make sure to plot the residuals, looking for extreme errors that might be due to an outlier, or look at the confusion matrix and make sure it is balanced. Use k-fold cross validation to optimize your models and look at the variance of the training error for each fold, if one fold performs much worse than the others, it may contain outliers.
I am not working at Google, but I think it is some sort of recommendation system based on the words which millions of users searched before. So those people who search for "animals" often search for "wild animals" for example. Like in many online stores they recommend you to buy something in addition to the product you are looking for based on the previous purchases of other users. There are many approaches how to build such recommendation system using machine learning, no one knows for sure what google uses.
There exist many possibilities for populating empty gaps on data. There exist many others, but these are the most common strategies. My suggestion is not to populate and to keep unknown what is unknown.
The only thing I know about is benchmark data for Graph Databases, such as Neo4j. You may find links similar to this one: where you can find data to test network analysis and graph theory. Furthermore, you could play with the API of Twitter/Facebook to collect your own data. This is also a suggestion in case you do not find the data you are looking for.
I thought of expanding a bit on the answer by Stanpol. While recommendation system is one approach of suggesting related queries, one more standard information retrieval based approach is the query expansion technique. Generally speaking, query expansion involves selecting additional terms from the top ranked documents retrieved in response to an initial query. Terms are typically selected by a combination of a term scoring function such as tf-idf and a co-occurrence based measure. For example, in response to a query term "animal", a term selection function may choose the term "zoo", because
Google isn't going to give away their proprietary work, but we can speculate. Here's what I can gather from my limited usage: It seems to me that they do this based on the history of the general end user population, they rotate recommendations when there are many popular ones, and they do some additional processing to determine that the result set is of a reasonable size. I would postulate that it works as follows:
Folks here stated great steps, but I think there are great information at the following link, It sums up the steps the folks tweeted answering the great @hmason question "Data people: What is the very first thing you do when you get your hands on a new data set?" Hope it will be useful.
Below is a very good note (page 12) on learning rate in Neural Nets (Back Propagation) by Andrew Ng. You will find details relating to learning rate. For your 4th point, you're right that normally one has to choose a "balanced" learning rate, that should neither overshoot nor converge too slowly. One can plot the learning rate w.r.t. the descent of the cost function to diagnose/fine tune. In practice, Andrew normally uses the L-BFGS algorithm (mentioned in page 12) to get a "good enough" learning rate.
What do you think is distance measure in your case? I assume there are three dimensions here: That means data you get from matrix looks like: Is scaled? In other words, is? If yes, then In that case the distance between two will be: If is not scaled (regular categorical variable), use some. So in case of 100x100 matrix you have 10000 observations and three variables, which is pretty trivial sample size.
(the part you are interested in is now called ) is simply a client API for MapReduce written in R. You invoke MapReduce using R package APIs, and send an R function to the workers, where it is executed by an R interpreter locally. But it is otherwise exactly the same MapReduce. You can call anything you like in R this way, but no R functions are themselves parallelized to use MapReduce in this way. The point is simply that you can invoke M/R from R. I don't think it somehow lets you do anything more magical than that.
Yes, it's problematic. If you oversample the minority, you risk overfitting. If you undersample the majority, you risk missing aspects of the majority class. Stratified sampling, btw, is the equivalent to assigning non-uniform misclassification costs. Alternatives: Independently sampling several subsets from the majority class and making multiple classifiers by combining each subset with all the minority class data, as suggested in the answer from @Debasis and described in this, or to create synthetic instances of the minority class by making nearest neighbors in the feature space. SMOTE is implemented in R in.
There is a bunch of datasets made free by UC Irvine. Among those datasets, that might help you guys with your task. Those are kind of generic datasets, so depending on your purpose they should not be used as the only data to train your models, or else your model -- while it might work -- will not produce quality results.
Maybe you can check here - For each data set you will also see references of the works where they have been used
Here's a crazy idea: talk to the volunteers who know the neighborhoods and who have done door-to-door work before. Get their advice and ideas. They will probably have insights that no algorithm will produce, and those modifications will be valuable to any computer-generated route list. One example: Avoiding crossing heavily traveled streets with slow lights or no lights. Another example: pairs of volunteers working on opposite sides of the same street will feel safer than a volunteer working that street alone.
You need to look at the confidence interval of the statistic. This helps measure how much uncertainty in the statistic, which is largely a function of sample size.
You are doing the correct thing. Technically, this averaging leads to computing the in the Euclidean space of a set of N points. The centroid works pretty well with cosine similarities (cosine of the angles between normalized vectors), e.g..
As @Debasis writes, what you are doing is correct. Do not worry about the relative values as the cosine similarity focusses on the angle, not the length of the vector. Note that the averages that you compute actually are the proportion of observations that have that feature in your subset. If the subset is sufficiently large, you can interpret them as probabilities.
Simply, one common approach is to increase the complexity of the model, making it simple, and most probably underfitting at first, and increasing the complexity of the model until early signs of overfitting are witnessed using a resampling technique such as cross validation, bootstrap, etc. You increase the complexity either by adding parameters (number of hidden neurons for artificial neural networks, number of trees in a random forest) or by relaxing the regularization (often named lambda, or C for support vector machines) term in your model.
As Steve Kallestad has said, this is a TSP problem, and there are wonderful free solvers to find approximate solutions. It may be too much work for what you are looking for, but you may try use one of those solvers in combination with the Google Maps API, to find real walking distances beetwen your coordinates: (I have never used this API, so I don't know how easy or effective it would be)
As far as gathering data goes, you can check out Quandl (there's a tutorial on using it with R on if you're interested). In addition, Aswath Damodaran's contains a lot of helpful datasets. Though they aren't updated that frequently, they may still be useful, especially as a benchmark for comparing your own output (from the scripts you will inevitably need to write to calculate the necessary metrics). And, again, Quant SE is probably a better place to be looking.
I've done some research in this area. I've found first order Markov chains work well for predicting within game scoring dynamics across a variety of sports. You can read in more detail.
There's a number of semantic distance measures, each with its pros and cons. Here are just a few of them: Start with a simplest approach and then move further based on issues for your specific case.
State of the art appears to be "paragraph vectors" introduced in a recent. Cosine/Euclidean distance between paragraph vectors would likely work better than any other approach. This probably isn't feasible yet due to lack of open source implementations. Next best thing is cosine distance between LSA vectors or cosine distance between raw BOW vectors. Sometimes it works better to choose different weighting schemes, like TF-IDF.
My suggestion would be to attempt to build some kind of clustering on your unlabeled data that somewhat approximates a labelled dataset. The rationale is more or less as follows: Hope that makes sense, if you're specifically looking for clustering algorithms, a few that I personally enjoy that might be good in this scenario are and. Alternately, looking at the spectacular library in python will get you a long way toward the clustering you're looking for. Hope that helps and makes sense, leave a comment if you've got any questions.
There's a number of different ways of going about this depending on exactly how much semantic information you want to retain and how easy your documents are to tokenize (html documents would probably be pretty difficult to tokenize, but you could conceivably do something with tags and context.) Some of them have been mentioned by ffriend, and the paragraph vectors by user1133029 is a really solid one, but I just figured I would go into some more depth about plusses and minuses of different approaches. Hope that helps, let me know if you've got any questions.
They can't predict, but they can tell you the most likely result. There's an study about this kind of approach from Etienne -. This is a very detailed study, so you can check all the methodology used to get the predictions. Interesting enough, 11 from 15 matches were correct! (Let's go Brazil!)
From my experience only some classes of queries can be classified on lexical features (due to ambiguity of natural language). Instead you can try to use boolean search results (sites or segments of sites, not documents, without ranking) as features for classification (instead on words). This approach works well in classes where there is a big lexical ambiguity in a query but exists a lot of good sites relevant to the query (e.g. movies, music, commercial queries and so on). Also, for offline classification you can do LSI on query-site matrix. See "Introduction to Information Retrieval" book for details.
In the scikit-learn implementation of Spectral clustering and DBSCAN you do not need to precompute the distances, you should input the sample coordinates for all.. Here is a simplification of the:
Stochastic gradient descent is a method of setting the parameters of the regressor; since the objective for logistic regression is convex (has only one maximum), this won't be an issue and SGD is generally only needed to improve convergence speed with masses of training data. What your numbers suggest to me is that your features are not adequate to separate the classes. Consider adding extra features if you can think any any that are useful. You might also consider interactions and quadratic features in your original feature space.
Try a recurrent neural network, a model well suited for time series data. They're notoriously difficult to train, but seem to perform well when trained properly:
Since you mention you are building a recommendation system, I believe you have a sparse matrix which you are working on. Check from Matrix package. This should be able to help you with storing your large size matrix in memory and train your model.
Although your question is not very specific so I'll try to give you some generic solutions. There are couple of things you can do here: Good reads:
Go into the other link from home - to the cloudera manager. From there, you'll see Hue can be restarted, but there is probably an alert that needs to be resolved in there first. If I remember right there's some initial configuration that needs to be done on the quickstart VM that's spelled out as soon as you log into the manager application.
There are a couple of open source options I know of - LibOTS - DocSum - A couple of commercial solutions - Intellix Summarizer Pro - Copernic Summarizer - And this one is a web service - TextTeaser - I'm sure there are plenty of others out there. I have used Copernic a good deal and it's pretty good, but I was hoping it could be automated easily, which it can't - at least it couldn't when I used it.
Your problem is that the resets aren't part of your linear model. You either have to cut your data into different fragments at the resets, so that no reset occurs within each fragment, and you can fit a linear model to each fragment. Or you can build a more complicated model that allows for resets. In this case, either the time of occurrence of the resets has to be put into the model manually, or the time of resets has to be a free parameter in the model that is determined by fitting the model to the data.
I would suggest you to use libsvm, which already has adjustable class weights implemented in it. Rather than replicating the training samples, one modifies the C parameter for different classes in the SVM optimization. For example if your data has 2 classes, and the first class is only 10% of the data, you would choose class weights to be 10 and 1 for class 1 and 2 respectively. Therefore, margin violations of the first class would cost 10 times more than the margin violations for second class, and per-class accuracies would be more balanced.
Absolutely. Keep your software skills sharp. You can do this in an academic program if you simply implement by yourself all the algorithms you learn about. Good selection of courses, btw. Consider getting an internship too.
I'm not an expert on time series, but I have a general advice: may I suggest you to try other packages (and various parameters) to see, if there are any differences in results. Also, unless you have to use, I'd recommend to take a look at the 's extensive ecosystem for time series analysis: see and. In particular, you may want to check the standard package (including functions and), as well as some other packages: , and education-focused (cran.r-project.org/web/packages/fArma), to mention just a few. I hope this is helpful.
You are right, cosine similarity has a lot of common with dot product of vectors. Indeed, it is a dot product, scaled by magnitude. And because of scaling it is normalized between 0 and 1. CS is preferable because it takes into account variability of data and features' relative frequencies. On the other hand, plain dot product is a little bit "cheaper" (in terms of complexity and implementation).
It seems to me that latent features is a term used to describe criteria for classifying entities by their structure, in other words, by features (traits) they contain, instead of classes they belong to. Meaning of the word "latent" here is most likely similar to its meaning in social sciences, where very popular term means unobservable variable (concept). Section "Introduction" in provides a good explanation of latent features' meaning and use in modeling of social sciences phenomena.
I could try to explain you with words, but these slides explain it very well with pictures. Hope it helps. Note this slides correspond to the chapter 5 of "Statistical Machine Translation" by Philipp Koehn, highly recommended if you are working on machine translation, and it is easy to read.
Most of the recent Frequent Pattern approaches that I've seen in the literature are based on optimizing FPGrowth. I have to admit, I haven't seen many developments within the literature in FPM in many years. highlights many of the variants on FPGrowth that are out there.
Gas usage has a daily cycle but there are also secondary weekly and annual cycles that the ARIMA may not be able to capture. There is a very noticeable difference between the weekday and Saturday data. Try creating a subset of the data for each day of the week or splitting the data into weekday and weekend and applying the model. If you can obtain temperature data for the same period check if there is a correlation between the temperature and gas usage. As @Aleksandr Blekh said R does have good packages for ARIMA models
K-means should be right in this case. Since k-means tries to group based solely on euclidean distance between objects you will get back clusters of locations that are close to each other. To find the optimal number of clusters you can try making an 'elbow' plot of the within group sum of square distance. may be helpful
The TSNE source in scikit-learn is in pure Python. Fit method is actually calling a private function which then calls a private function. That function has a local variable which is printed out at the end of the fit. Seems like you could pretty easily change one or two lines of source code to have that value returned to.
Since I started doing research in academia I was constantly looking for a satisfactory workflow. I think that I finally found something I am happy with: For hobby research projects I use GitHub, for research at work I use the private GitLab server that is provided by our university. I also keep my datasets there. I have written a small cell-magic extension for IPython and IPython notebooks, called "watermark" that I use to conveniently create time stamps and keep track of the different package versions I used and also Git hashs For example For more info, see the.
I am not an export in using SVMs, but usually (if you are using a machine learning library like Python's or R's, there is the parameter, or, respectively. Or if you'd use a Bayes classifier, you would take this "skew" into account via the "prior (class) probabilities" P (ω j)
From what I heard, Pylearn2 might be currently the library of choice for most people. This reminds me of a recent blog post a few month ago that lists all the different machine learning libraries with a short explanation The section you might be interested in here would be "Deep Learning". About Pylearn2, he writes
Think geometrically. Cosine similarity only cares about angle difference, while dot product cares about angle and magnitude. If you normalize your data to have the same magnitude, the two are indistinguishable. Sometimes it is desirable to ignore the magnitude, hence cosine similarity is nice, but if magnitude plays a role, dot product would be better as a similarity measure. Note that neither of them is a "distance metric".
I am far from an expert, but my understanding of the subject tells me that R (superb in statistics) and e.g. Python (superb in several of those things where R is lacking) complements each other quite well (as pointed out by previous posts).
I believe the language itself has little to do with performance capabilities, when it comes to large data. What matters is: Anyway, Python is well adopted in data science communities.
To clarify, I feel like the original question references by OP probably isn't be best for a SO-type format, but I will certainly represent in this particular case. Let me just start by saying that regardless of your data size, shouldn't be your limiting factor. In fact, there are just a couple main issues that you're going to run into dealing with large datasets:
I know almost nothing about signal analysis, but 2-dimensional visualization could be easily done using R. Particularly you will need and packages. Assuming your data is wide (e.g. [n X 256] size), first you need to transform it to format using function from package. Then use geometry from. Here is a nice with.
You can pull stock data very easyly in python and R (probably other languages as well) with the following packages: In python with is also a really nice tutorial in iPython which shows you how to pull the stock data and play with it In R with HTH.
Absolutely. When you're working with data at that scale it's common to use a big data framework, in which case python or whatever language you're using is merely an interface. See for example. What kind of data do you have and what do you want to do with it?
To handle such amount of data, programming language is not the main concern but the programming framework is. Frameworks such as MapReduce or Spark have bindings to many languages including Python. These frameworks certainly have many ready-to-use packages for data analysis tasks. But in the end it all comes to your requirement, i.e., what is your task? People have different definitions of data analysis tasks, some of them can be easily solved with relational databases. In that case, SQL is much better than all other alternatives.
Not sure if this is exactly what you're looking for, but r-base has a function called "adist" which creates a distance matrix of approximate string distances (according to the Levenshtein distance). Type '?adist' for more. Also, if R isn't an option, the Levenshtein distance algorithm is implemented in many languages here:
If I understand your question, you can look at the co-occurrence matrix formed using the terms following the title; e.g., senior FOO, primary BAR, etc. Then you can compute the similarity between any pair of terms, such as "senior" and "primary", using a suitable metric; e.g., the cosine similarity.
I would use a visual analysis. Since you know there is a repetition every 256 bytes, create an image 256 pixels wide by however many deep, and encode the data using brightness. In (i)python it would look like this: This is what a PDF looks like: A 256 byte periodic pattern would have manifested itself as vertical lines. Except for the header and tail it looks pretty noisy.
One benefit of the schema-free NoSQL approach is that you don't commit prematurely and you can apply the right schema at query time using an appropriate tool like. See for details. MySQL wouldn't be my first choice in a big data setting.
That's an interesting problem, thanks for bring out here on stack. I think this problem is similar to when we apply in sentiment analysis to find list of positive and negative words with polarity with respect to some predefined positive and negative words. Good reads: So, according to me LSA is your best approach to begin with in this situation as it learns the underlying relation between the words from the corpus and probably that's what you are looking for.
I haven't done this before but it sounds like a job for a graph database given the functionality you want..
This is a very vague question. However, I will try to make sense of it. Considering rules of logic as well as your statement that both entities are "software systems that are based on data and algorithms", it appears that data products are intelligent systems and intelligent systems are, to some degree, data products. Therefore, it can be argued that the difference between the terms "data products" and "intelligent systems" is purely in the focus ( source of information or purpose of system dimensions) of each type of systems (data vs. intelligence/algorithms).
I think that you're on the right track toward becoming an expert data scientist. Recently I have answered related question (pay attention to the definition I mention there, as it essentially answers your question by itself, as well as to aspects of practicing software engineering and applying knowledge to solving real-world problems). I hope that you will find all that useful. Good luck in your career!
says it can handle a million edges. If your graph has 1000000 vertices and only 50000 edges then most of your vertices won't have any edges anyway. In fact the Gephi spec is the dual of your example: "Networks up to 50,000 nodes and 1,000,000 edges"
Well it depends on what kind of "Data Science" you wish to get in to. For basic analytics and reporting statistics will certainly help, but for Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence then you'll want a few more skills
I think, that could face with lack-of-memory issues, you will need at least 8Gb of RAM. Though number of edges is not extremely huge. Possibly, more appropriate tool in this case would be. It's a command line tool for network visualizations, and presumably would be more tolerant to graph size. Moreover, as I remember, in it is possible to use precomputed coordinates to facilitate computations. I've tried to find a real-world examples of using with huge graphs, but didn't succeed. Though I found similar discussion on.
There are a lot of pretty decent tools out there for text annotation in general, and given the broad nature of the task you're approaching (license plates are about as general as words), the annotation tools you are looking at should probably come from the more classical tools for annotation. There was actually a pretty good discussion about annotation tools on question, which should actually apply to this problem. The most relied-upon thing in annotation right now is probably. You can learn more about. Hope that helps! Let me know if you've got any more questions.
Reporting back: I ended up coding graphml and using yEd for visualization (just because I am familiar with this combination. I bet gephi or graphviz would work fine and might even be better). Since I computed the location of all nodes, memory was not such big of an issue. Coding graphml is a little easier comparing to coding svg, since I don't have to explicitly specify the placement of edges.
'group' in strictly lower case in the FOREACH is the thing you are looping/grouping over. says: Column names are case sensitive, so you have to use lower-case 'group' in your FOREACH. 'GROUP' in upper case is the grouping operator. You can't mix them. So don't do that.
This can be done in using. Based on question, it could be done with this code where is the date range of the plot.
I would look at the package for this, which can read in raw binary data and present it as NxM grids. It can even extract subsets of large binary grids without having to read in the whole file (the R raster object itself is just a proxy to the data, not the data itself).
Take something from your everyday life. Create predictor of traffic jams in your region, craft personalised music recommender, analyse car market, etc. Choose real problem that you want to solve - this will not only keep you motivated, but also make you go through the whole development circle from data collection to hypothesis testing.
course that is being run on Coursera now includes real-world project assignment where companies post their problems and students are encouraged to solve them. This is done via (already mentioned here). More information (you have to be enrolled in the course to see that link)
I'll add one thing- if possible, do a reasonableness check by comparing you data against some other source. It seems that whenever I fail to do this, I get burnt:(
I think that there is no universal technique for "cleaning" data before doing actual research. On the other hand, I'm aiming for doing as much as possible. By doing reproducible research, if you used cleaning techniques with bugs or with poor parameters/assumptions it could be spot by others. There is nice R package which helps a lot in reproducible research. Of course, not all research could be fully reproduced (for example live Twitter data), but at least you can document cleaning, formating and preprocessing steps easily. You can check my prepared for.
map/reduce is most appropriate for parallelizable offline computations. To be more precise, it works best when the result can be found from the result of some function of a partition of the input. Averaging is a trivial example; you can do this with map/reduce by summing each partition, returning the sum and the number of elements in the partition, then computing the overall mean using these intermediate results. It is less appropriate when the intermediate steps depend on the state of the other partitions.
There is a paper you should look into: They distinguish 3 classes of machine-learning problems that are reasonable to address with MapReduce: They also give examples for each class.
This is not a problem about neural networks per se, but about representing textual data in machine learning. You can represent the movies, cast, and theme as categorical variables. The plot is more complicated; you'd probably want a for that, but I'd leave that out until you get the hang of things. It does precisely that textual "downsampling" you mentioned. Take a look at tutorial to learn how to encode categorical variables for neural networks. And good luck!
I suggest you use, which is a very powerful parser generator. It has a good GUI for entering your BNF. It has a capability.
"Identify the most influential precursor conditions (comorbidities) for a medical condition like chronic kidney disease" I'm not sure that it's possible to ID the most influential conditions; I think it will depend on what model you're using. Just yesterday I fit a random forest and a boosted regression tree to the same data, and the order and relative importance each model gave for the variables were quite different.
A couple of days ago developers from one product company asked me how they can understand why new users were leaving their website. My first question to them was what these users' profiles looked like and how they were different from those who stayed. Advertising is only top of an iceberg. User profiles (either filled by users themselves or computed from users' behaviour) hold information about: So it's more about improving product and making better user experience rather than selling this data to advertisers.
So I was never able to find the error by looking through my logs. I ended up reinstalling it with CDH5 (which was MUCH easier than installing "poor" Hadoop) Now everything runs fine! I'm still having trouble getting things to save to the hdfs, but thats a question for another day.
If your work is parallelizable enough for a distributed network of cpus to make a difference, why not try to run it on the gpu instead? That will require rather less investment than a large network of cpus with individual software licenses and still provide parallel processing which you can do runtime tracking on yourself.
Having worked with Facebook data a bit (harvested from Facebook users) we stored it just as a pair of values: USER_ID, FRIEND_USER_ID. But I guess your questions is a bit deeper? You can store it in different ways, depending on your research question. One interesting option is triads for example -
When I worked with social network data, we stoted the "friendship" relation in a database in the table with a B-Tree index on plus also some partitioning. In our case it was a little bit different since the graph was directed, so it wasn't really "friendship", but rather "following/follower" relationship. But for friendship I would just store two edges: both and We used MySQL to store the data, if it matters, but I guess it shouldn't.
I think hierarchical clustering would be more time efficient in your case (with a single dimension). Depending on your task, you may implement something like this: Having N datapoints d i with their 1-dimension value x i: This algorithm implements clustering. It can be tuned easily to implement average linkage. will be less efficient, but maybe easier ones will give good results depending on your data and task. I believe for 200K datapoints it must take under second, if you use proper data structures for above operations.
I think in your case a 10-fold CV will be O.K. I think it is more important to randomize the cross validation process than selecting the ideal value for k. So repeat the CV process several times randomly and compute the variance of your classification result to determine if the results are realiable or not.
Yes, you can do all this using the Caret package in R. For example, which will give the output Caret offers many other options as well so should be able to suit your needs.
Can you just cast your from back into a so you can carry out your same strategy. This is very common to what I do when dealing with pandas and scikit. For example,
I have managed to resolve this. There is an excellent and thorough explanation of the optimization steps in the following thesis:. My mistake was trying to update the quality for all potential clusters pairs. Instead, you should initialize a table with the quality changes of doing each merge. Use this table to find the best merge, and the update the relevant terms that make up the table entries.
It dates back to 1998, so most likely has been abandoned, or "acquired" by Microsoft as the creator currently works there and has done since publishing that research. See and for the author. Maybe you could try to contact him.
I'm not allowed to comment, but I have more a suggestion: you could try to implement some "Over-sampling Techniques" like SMOTE:
You can apply a clustering algorithm to the instances in the majority class and train a classifier with the centroids/medoids offered by the cluster algorithm. This is subsampling the majority class, the converse of oversampling the minority class.
You will have best results if you care to build the folds so that each variable (and most importantly the target variable) is approximately identically distributed in each fold. This is called, when applied to the target variable, stratified k-fold. One approach is to cluster the inputs and make sure each fold contains the same number of instances from each cluster proportional to their size.
You mentioned regression and PCA in the title, and there is a definite answer for each of those. The asymptotic complexity of linear regression reduces to O if N > P, where P is the number of features and N is the number of observations. More detail in. Vanilla PCA is O, as in. However fast algorithms exist for very large matrices, explained in that answer and. However I don't think anyone's compiled a single lit review or reference or book on the subject. Might not be a bad project for my free time.
In addition to undersampling the majority class (i.e. taking only a few NEW), you may consider oversampling the minority class (in essence, duplicating your OLDs, but there are other smarter ways to do that) Note that oversampling may lead to overfitting, so pay special attention to testing your classifiers Check also this answer on CV:
I had to create a web based dashboard. My main charting tool was d3js. But I needed to use ggplot2 to generate few charts. Through d3js's ggplot2 extension, I could create the same. If your charts can be generated through existing extension, then web has better alternatives. Later you can export them to PDF for distribution.
I have to agree that k-fold should do "just" fine. However, there is a nice article about the "Bootstrap.632+" method (basically a smoothened cross validation) that is supposed to be superior (however, they did the comparisons on not-binary data as far as I can tell) Maybe you want to check out this article here:
Topic models are usually unsupervised. There are "supervised topic models", too; but even then they try to model topics within a classes. E.g. you may have a class "football", but there may be topics inside this class that relate to particular matches or teams. The challenge with topics is that they change over time; consider the matches example above. Such topics may emerge, and disappear again.
After consulting with someone I found out that the corresponds to a model that would include all the variables, in other words none of the variables were removed. So consider the line in the output for the variable aaa. The listed RSS and AIC are the values for a model that would include all variables but aaa and we see an increase in the RSS and AIC. The other listed results can be considered in the same fashion. The best model is then the one where none are removed since this has the smallest AIC.
See Are you sure you can't just use lucene or similar indexing techniques? Inverted indexes will store the n-gram only once, then just the document ids that contain the ngram; they don't store this as highly redundant raw text. As for finding ngrams that contain your query sub-n-gram, I would build an index on the observed ngrams, e.g. using a second lucene index, or such as a trie or suffix tree. If your data is dynamic, probably lucene is a reasonable choice, using phrase queries to find your n-grams.
This makes sense. IIUC, the speed of execution of support vector operations is bound by number of samples, not dimensionality. In other words, it is capped by CPU time and not RAM. I'm not sure exactly how much time this should take, but I'm running some benchmarks to find out.
its worth also looking at the training errors. basically I disagree with your analysis. if logistic regression etc are all giving the same results it would suggest that the 'best model' is a very simple one (that all models can fit equally well - eg basically linear). So then the question might be why is the best model a simple model?: It might suggest that your variables are not very predictive. Its of course hard to analyse without knowing the data.
As @seanv507 suggested, the similar performance may simply be due to the data being best separated by a linear model. But in general, the statement that it is because the "observations to variable ratio is so high" is incorrect. Even as your ratio of sample size to number of variables goes to infinity, you should not expect different models to perform nearly identically, unless they all provide the same predictive bias.
No, scikit-learn does not seem to have a forward selection algorithm. However, it does provide recursive feature elimination, which is a greedy feature elimination algorithm similar to sequential backward selection. See the
You can get some documented, publicly available EEG data from the HeadIT database at UCSD. The data itself appears to be in Biosemi Data Format (.bdf) files, described here: Biosemi provides links to several open-source methods to access and import.bdf files on their website, including several functions for importing into Matlab, as well as into Python (BioSig) and C/C++ libraries: Just as a forewarning, EEG data can be a bit of a bear to work with, due to it's inherently low signal/noise ratio.
First thing that came to mind would be one's personal workout data from running or biking apps. Otherwise there is a dataset around NYC's taxi trip data. Quick Googling brought me this:. Variables include time and location for both pickups and dropoffs. Another dataset comes from Chicago's bikesharing service. It can be found here:.
Another idea is to combine OpenStreetMap project map data, for example, using corresponding nice R package , with census data (population census data, such as the US data:, as well as census data in other categories: ) to analyze temporal patterns of geosocial trends. HTH.
Try BeautifulSoup - From the website "Beautiful Soup is a Python library designed for quick turnaround projects like screen-scraping." I have no personally used it, but it often comes up in regards to a nice library for scraping. Here's a blog post on using it to scrape Craigslist
If you have R and the package then you are only away from a list of space-time data sets bundled with the package: then for example:
You don't mention what language you're programming in (please consider adding it as a tag), so general help would be to seek out a HTML parser and use that to pull the data. Some web sites can have simply awful HTML code and can be very difficult to scrape, and just when you think you have it. A HTML parser will parse all the html and allow you to access it in a structured sort of way, whether that's from an array, an object etc.
I believe that this is a case for applying time series analysis, in particular time series forecasting . Consider the following resources on time series regression:
You may want to check - a stachexchange website for many things, including machine learning. In particular, this question (with exactly same title) has already been answered multiple times. Check. But I may give you the short answer to it: yes, it does overfit, and sometimes you need to control the complexity of the trees in your forest, or even prune when they grow too much - but this depends on the library you use for building the forest. E.g. in in R you can only control the complexity
Due to the very Big increase in Big Data (pun intended) and the desire for robust stable scalable applications I actually believe it to be Scala. Spark will inevitably become the main Big Data Machine Learning tool, and it's main API is in Scala. Furthermore you simply cannot build a product with scripting languages like Python and R, one can only experiment with these languages. What Scala brings is a way to BOTH experiment and produce a product. More reasons
If I understand you question correctly, there are two reasons why genetic algorithm might not a good idea for optimizing website features: 1) Feedback data is coming in too slow, say once a day, genetic algorithm might take a while to converge. 2) In the process of testing genetic algorithm will probably come up with combinations that are 'strange' and that might not be the risk the company wants to take.
Try. This has an implementation of Word2Vec used instead of Bag of Words for NER and other NLP tasks.
I've making some researches last months and I could find more libraries, contente and active community with Python. Actually I'm using it to ETL processes, some minning jobs and to make map/reduce.
Scala is the only real language that has Big Data at it's core. You have MLLib that sits on Spark, and as Scala is Functional it makes parallel computing really natural. R, Python and Matlab are not suitable for industry productization, well some would say Python's horrible dynamic typing can be handled a little using special build tools, but really its not type safe and there is no way to solve that problem.
You might want to try this book for an overview of different techniques. Obviously, the methods you need will depend on the use case. A lot of people do interesting things with graphs, displaying relationships between users, with respect to certain topics. Or you might simply to a timeline showing how a news topic builds in interest and wanes.
Checkout Breeze and apache commons math for the maths, and ScalaLab for some nice examples of how to plot things in Scala. I've managed to get an environment setup where this would just be a couple of lines. I dont actually use ScalaLab, rather borrow some of its code, I use Intellij worksheets instead.
If your data is numeric, try loading it into ELKI (Java). With the it will give you scatterplots, histograms and parallel coordinate plots. It's fast in reading the data; only the current Apache Batik-based visualization is slooow because it's using SVG.:-( I'm mostly using it "headless". It also has classes for various statistics (including higher order moments on data streams), but I havn't seen them in the default UI yet.
You could look at scikit-learn or Orange module in Python. Scikit-learn has a SGD classifier and regressor that could do a partial fit data in case of online learning. In R, take a look at caret package
Your job seems like a map-reduce job and hence might be good for Hadoop. Hadoop has a zoo of an ecosystem though. Hadoop is a distributed file system. It distributes data on a cluster and because this data is split up it can be analysed in parallel. Out of the box, Hadoop allows you to write map reduce jobs on the platform and this is why it might help with your problem. The following technologies work on Hadoop: Don't underestimate the amount of time setting up and the amount of time needed to understand Hadoop.
Here are a couple of really great open source software packages for text classification that should help get you started:
If I understand your description correctly, hadoop seems a huge overhead, for the wrong problem. basically you just need a standard distributed architecture: don't you just have to pass pairs of rows - eg mpi. ipython.parallel,.
Here's a simple initial approach to try: You might also try a clustering-based approach where you look for outliers, or perhaps something with the using a bag-of-words model.
My initial recommendation would be to use the. NLTK offers methods for or, as well as methods for analyzing the. However, all of this requires a bit of programming. That's tricky. Have you looked into? I'm not exactly sure if/how GATE does what you want, but it does offer a GUI.
You can use SKlearn, It is a python library. It is simplest method which i like with minimal code. You can follow this link
No, despite their names they are not equivalent or even that similar. Both could be applied in some cases, but they are different measures for different things. Impurity is what is commonly used in.
Your best best is to train your own models on the kind of data you're going to be working with.
Undersampling the majority class is usually the way to go in such situations. If you think that you have too few instances of the positive class, you may perform oversampling, for example, sample 5n instances with replacement from the dataset of size n. Caveats:
Gradient boosting is also a good choice here. You can use the gradient boosting classifier in sci-kit learn for example. Gradient boosting is a principled method of dealing with class imbalance by constructing successive training sets based on incorrectly classified examples.
There are several approaches. You can start from the second one. Equal-width (distance) partitioning: Equal-depth (frequency) partitioning: Other Methods Entropy-based Binning uses a split approach. The entropy (or the information content) is calculated based on the class label. Intuitively, it finds the best split so that the bins are as pure as possible that is the majority of the values in a bin correspond to have the same class label. Formally, it is characterized by finding the split with the maximal information gain.
This may provide some answer: You may also check out Max Kuhn's "Applied Predictive Modeling" book. He talks about the caret package at length in this book, including the kappa statistics and how to use it. This may be of some help to you.
A Google search leads to many relevant resources that answer your question: From a data science point of view, there is nothing very special or unique about this problem. You have three independent variables and one dependent variable. Regression, clustering, and classification methods can be applied.
Basically, you can do one of two things: Note, that ensembles where initially created for combining different learners, not different sets if features. In this later case ensembles have advantage mostly in cases when different kinds of features just can't be combined in a single vector efficiently. But in general, combing features is simpler and more straightforward.
It's probably due to the of categorical predictors. Eg, the regression coefficient for CPR = 7 is not zero but -(sum of regression coefficients for the other 6 levels). I guess EM should have an option to switch it to reference coding, then your way of computing the predicted probability should work.
Decision trees (and hence Random Forests) are insensitive to monotone transformations of input features. Since multiplying by the same factor is a monotone transformation, I'd assume that for Random Forests there indeed is no difference. However, you eventually may consider using other classifiers that do not have this property, so it may still make sense to use the entire TF * IDF.
Some of the GREC shared task challenges included a named entity recognition & coreference resolution component (i.e., disambiguation), but I don't think they've run GREC since 2010.?
That's an outline of the process by Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan and Hinrich Schütze is a very good book to get started in IR. Or just use to get everything you need out of the box (or, that is used by Solr, to build your own application)
First of all I should say you question probably is an off-topic and will be closed soon. Discussed at this SE site Anyway I can target you to similar questions discussed at this SE site already: Cross Validated SE A set of relevant questions at Cross Validated Stack Exchange: Data scientist map This is good infographics of data science knowledge you might need to start a career : Careers SE Also, simple "data scientist" querying of Careers SE site will lead you to the following knowlege "tags": etc.
I would recommend limiting yourself to a few tried and trusted algorithms. I would not recommend Elements of statistical learning (as a first book). It is too theoretical, aimed at graduate students, with exercises asking how to prove X or Y. I think is more appropriate, with more practical advice ( in any case both books are free as pdf downloads). Besides statistics, I would make sure you are comfortable with experimental design/AB tests, and with Business Intelligence/Visualisation.
If you have enough data, use cross validation. If you don't have a lot of data, use cross validation on a similar dataset, and transfer the window size (the UCR archive has a bunch of similar dataset) Don't forget, that the best warping window size depends on the amount of training data. As you get more data, you can have a smaller warping window, see fig 6 of eamonn
I remember a long time ago playing with Elastic Search (the website is very different now from what I remember). There is some stuff about dealing with human language. Be warned that Elastic search is like a big bazooka to your problem. If your problem is very simple, maybe you want to go from scratch. There is some docs in the web about it.
If I understand you correctly, I would try a few featurization methods to transform the text column to a numeric value. Then you can proceed with analysis as usual. There is a great book on NLP called that would give numerous ways to think about your text variables.
I think ethics in Data Science is important. There is a fundamental difference in using user data to better their experience and show relevant ads and using user data to trick people into clicking on ads for the sake of monetary profit. Personally I like ads that give me relevant information like deals on things I would buy anyway. However, showing me weight loss ads because I got dumped is creepy and unethical. As my friend Peter always says, "don't be creepy with data".
Don't bother. First rule of programming- which also applies to data science: get everything working on a small test problem. so take a random sample of your data of say 100,000 rows. try different algorithms etc. once you have got everything working to your satisfaction, you can try larger (and larger) data sets - and see how the test error reduces as you add more data. furthermore you do not want to apply svd to only 8 columns: you apply it when you have a lot of columns.
Although you can probably find some tools that will let you do it on a single machine, you're getting into the range where it make sense to consider "big data" tools like Spark, especially if you think your data set might grow. Spark has a component called MLlib which supports PCA and SVD..
I think the answer is the usual "It depends" one. Commenting code just to comment code is a smell. Commenting code because you're using an obscure algorithm that's an order of magnitude faster saves the maintenance programmer (usually me 6 months after I wrote it) half a day of poking through the code to determine what it's doing.
IMO, I've found that the transparency offered by agile processes (e.g. Scrum, Crystal, etc.) goes a long ways towards showing how development works to the average stakeholder.
Stress. I give in to temptation and surf StackExchange/Reddit until the last possible minute, then bang out what needs to get done. Nothing like a 1 hour deadline to keep you focused.
I work from home, so focus is a constant struggle. Music, caffeine, and good eating habits go a long way. If I still can't focus after that then I probably wasn't meant to be focusing right then and I go do something else for a bit and come back. Having multiple projects/pieces of work to do makes a big difference too. If one gets boring, switching to another for a few hours is often a good quick fix.
I'm not sure if he's the originator of this quote, but I attended a session at a conference once where Alex Pukinskis said this and I love it!
It depends on many factors, including: I'd give you a rough breakdown of what percent of the total effort I'd give to each section, but it'd have a margin of error +/- 10% on each based on the above factors so it'd be kinda meaningless.
Some employers look almost strictly to certifications and experience. But personnally I think certification only show that you knew very well the technology at a certain point in time. But it's always look good on a resume!
I declare your co-worker a heretic! Where are my heretic-burnin' boots? Obsessive commenting is bad and a maintenance headache, and comments are no replacement for well-named methods, classes, variables, etc. But sometimes putting why something is the way it is can be immensely valuable for the poor idiot who has to maintain the code in six months -- particularly when that poor idiot winds up being you. Some actual comments from the code I'm working on:
One word: Workspaces I develop in Firefox but browse, etc in Chrome. And since I use Ubuntu I have Pandora, email, Stackoverflow etc open in one workspace while I have my editor, dev browser and mysql client gui open in another. By keeping the two workspaces separate I tend to be able to focus more on actual programming and I don't distracted by having all of those shiny tabs to click on to check the latest status of my StackExchange sites, etc.
I do not think that you will get better job if you have certification. However, you will get edge if another candidate has same qualities as you but you also have certification. And, since certified experts do give some advantage to their company, your job offer might as well require one. E.g. Microsoft requires certain number of certified people for company to be Gold partner. I personally still take certification exams although I am not looking for job. I see it as good way to grade your general knowledge and invest in yourself a little.
Because the biggest problem in software development these days is the ability to manage complexity. This is not the focus of most functional programming languages. As such, languages that do make that a priority (namely the more popular OOP languages) tend to just steal some of the cooler features that come out of the more academic functional languages and so stay on top.
I do not think that there is such thing as proper indentation (at least not without minor war). Personally I like four spaces. They enable me to read code much faster and they look same in every editor - even Vi.
I'd not educate if there has been a code history for him / her. The knowledge of development issues should have stuck in the mind. Politely ask him/her whether you could discuss whatever he has in mind over lunch.
Spaces A tab could be a different number of columns depending on your environment, but a space is always one column. In terms of how many spaces (or tabs) constitutes indentation, it's more important to be consistent throughout your code than to use any specific tab stop value.
I usually just listen everything such person has to say. I agree to almost anything and I do it my way anyhow. Usually he never bothers to check.
I personally like to use tabs in everything, since each developer can control the amount of indentation per tab. That way you get flexibility in display. That being said, I usually mimic whatever coding style is in the file to start with (since I spend a lot of time doing maintenance work).
Tabs Now, of course, consistency matters more than either one, and a good IDE makes the differences negligible. That said, the point of this thread is to be a holy war, so: I prefer tabs:
Increments. I will pick something that I can do, even if it's a small task (i.e. modify comments in code). Pretty soon, the perfectionist in me wants to do more and more stuff and I'm back rolling.
This isn't strictly a programming quote and I don't recall where I first heard it, but I've repeated it plenty of times on the job:
Ask them what they want you to drop so you'll have the time to squeeze this latest request in. I've not had to do this for a while, and when I did, I used it sparingly otherwise it loses it's potency. I found it most effective towards the end of the phase when you were tidying stuff up or doing the little improvements and tweaks you'd agreed on in the planning stage.
Establish a change request process before the project begins. Say something to the effect of "Here's what we're going to deliver. If you want something else added, you can write it down, submit it, then we'll figure out how much it'll cost you, and you can decide whether you really want it."
Make them write code, real code. The interviewer may let you pick the programming language you are most comfortable with, be it C++, Java, C# or whatever and ask you to solve a simple problem, e.g. doing some work with a string or a doubly linked list or whatever. If you have trouble using your best language solving a simple problem then there is a problem. Please see and especially the section "Mental Prep".
EDIT: I should mention that my main programming language at the moment is Python, which is dynamically typed. Personally, I love the freedom that comes with not having to pre-declare variables, but at times, it would be nice to specify (for example) what kind of parameters a function takes to catch errors early rather than late.
Just give them some basic code to do on whiteboard - e.g. linked list implementation, sorting or something similar. You can judge how comfortable are they with their language without help of compiler and you can judge their thought process (especially if they never implemented such thing - most of "new" programmers never did).
Well, in Italy programmers are looked as the least important part of almost any work organization, so your actual skills (including certifications) are often ignored by employers, and real life experience is much more well regarded. In good companies however, certifications are a valuable part of your résumé.
For the same reason that Lisp never really caught on (let the flamewars begin!). Functional programming is a very alien paradigm compared to imperative and object-oriented programming. If, like the vast majority of CS students, you started off with C and progressed to C++/Java, you tend not to want to learn to think in a way that is completely orthogonal to the way you normally think.
A programming savvy Graphic Designer. A graphic designer for web needs to understand the limitations of web graphics and concepts like graceful fallback. HTML5 and CSS3 are making a big push, but until those are here, your graphic designer needs to understand the limits of CSS2 and XHTML.
A good development team is nothing without some support: One major role that's missing is IT: systems administration, networking, etc. There are a lot of developers whose knowledge of how computer systems work stop at the compiler. I'd also add a manager to handle vendor contracts and other support aspects of a development team.
I twitter accounts sorted by reputation. I mined the latest data dump for all users with twitter accounts, then calculated each user's top tags based on most votes, and finally sorted the lists by user reputation. Here is a screenshot of what the SO list looks like: I also mined the available Stack Exchange data dumps. The list of members for this site will also appear on the next data dump. Here is a subset that is applicable to programmers:
I work at a web dev shop (~25 people) and we do it mostly by the project, since that's what customers prefer. They don't want open-ended commitments to keep giving us money. Some exceptions have occurred, though. When we do hourly, it's usually a deal where we'll give them N hours of work between M developers per month to work on whatever they want.
Make sure they understand and expect to be paying you for i) support, ii) additions, and iii) maintenance once you are done the initial work before you start. If they won't agree to it don't do the project.
You obviously need a combination approach. If you're sharing code with other developers, you need to standardize, and since that's impossible (koff koff), you need to make everyone do four spaces. Then you need an editor that's smart enough not to be stupid about that, to know that it should treat a line with four spaces at the front of it like it's indented. Any modern IDE or programmers' editor can auto-flow code with spaces instead of tabs.
For a quickstart, have a look to this list: You got: I would then search by name, starting from the book authors you are reading. For example: i'm currently reading Professional Android Application development by Reto Meier; Googling his name + twitter i get his twitter account.
Besides real technical questions, and typically at the end of the interview I try to get a grasp of their level of interest in the industry and it's culture with questions like: Although failing to answer these questions at all (sadly it happens very frequently) does not mean a 'no-hire' to me, they say a lot about the way a person approaches the software development profession.
This book is probably the definitive book on software construction. It discusses topics such as the foundations for construction (requirements, architecture, and design), choosing a programming language, choosing a development methodology, designing classes and objects, writing high-quality functions and methods, defensive programming, the use and naming of variables, data types, organizing and formatting statements, collaborative programming, testing, debugging, refactoring, and development tools. This is a must have on every software engineer's shelf, even if you aren't explicitly writing code.
. The patterns largely OOP-bent, but within OOP, they're pretty applicable to any language. You should read it because it'll make you a better designer. It teaches you good ways to solve subsystem design problems that you might not have figured out until you'd been designing systems for 40 years. They're reusable solutions to semi-common problems. That said, there's a pattern that sophomores go through when they learn design patterns in school:
This book is all about how to write code that works and is maintainable. A key concept is being practical. Everything in the book is boiled down to 70 tips that are easy to remember that help you deliver better, higher-quality software.
Spaces or Tabs - What Atwood really says is pick one thing and be consistent in your project. The only holy grail of code formatting is to make certain that its consistent so that the psychopath who maintains your code after you doesn't feel compelled to remedy the situation permanently. That said, if you're working in Python or any other language where whitespace is an actual programming construct I can't imagine using tabs.
There's always going to be a struggle between you and the client over costs: you want to charge as much as you can from a client, and a client is going to want to get as much work for as little cost as possible. So, when you charge hourly, it leaves open to negotiation how many hours a project should take to complete. You may think it'll take 10 hours, but your client thinks you should do it in 5. By charging by project, there's very little open to negotiation: it costs $X, and the client can take it or leave it.
I would call it more-refactorable. Refactoring gets extremely easy if code is covered with lot of tests. It would be fair to call it more maintainable.
By one definition it's more maintainable, as any breaking change is more likely to be caught by the tests. However, the fact that code passes the unit tests doesn't mean it's intrinsically of higher quality. The code might still be badly formatted with irrelevant comments and inappropriate data structures, but it can still pass the tests. I know which code I'd prefer to maintain and extend.
Try to get into "flow state". It can often be hard, so you should reduce distractions as much as possible. If you are tired, do some exercise - it will wake you up.
I find that getting up from my desk for a short walk (2-4 minutes every hour or so) clears my mind and lets me get back in the groove. Note that this needs to be scheduled and disciplined, otherwise it becomes mere avoidance and anything boring or difficult will result in me wandering aimlessly for a bit and not getting anything done.
It depends on your existing background. If you are an embedded developer, you can write or improve some device driver. There aren't many other task to do in the kernel, unless you want to write a new process scheduler of course. I would suggest instead to study the existing source, it is a boring task but for a beginner it is almost the only thing to do.
I remember reading a thesis about Cowboy Development, that is essentially Agile for solo developers. The thesis can be read here: (PDF)
I would not spend time over it. Anyway, COBOL is the building blocks of many legacy application programs that are mission critical for several Big Company started 20\30 years ago. So, if you are hired for a company that has part of its core business in COBOL, there are chances that you have to start to learn it.
I would agree about the maintainable part. Michael Feathers recently posted a video of an excellent talk of his called " " in which he discusses this topic. In the talk he says that the relationship is one way, that is, code that is well designed is testable, but testable code is not necessarily well designed. It's worth noting that the video streaming is not great in the video, so it might be worth downloading if you want to watch in full.
Use tabs to indent the start of the line, one tab per indent level, and let everyone pick how wide they want that to be. Use spaces if you're lining up characters within a line, so they always line up regardless of tab size. And find and punch all the early software authors who let this stupid thing become an issue in the first place. (Seriously, why is this even something that's discussed? Next you'll be telling me you also want to use multiple characters for line breaks!)
Tabs are the natural and orthodox choice, as they are by definition used for indentation. Unfortunately, tabs are unevenly implemented, so the only real world solution is 4 spaces.
Have several people from your team interview them independently. Share your thoughts after, don't talk in between before interviewing them. Talking in between will sway your judgement and you won't have independent assesements. For the technical people interviewing them make them write code. For non technical, don't try to ask things you aren't experienced with. Make sure you have at least some technical people interviewing though. Interviews should not be conducted only by managers, it should be extremely important to every worker who they will work with in the future.
Comments should explain why, not how. type comments are usually better dealt with using refactoring. Personally, I usually avoid comments in favor of refactoring. Before: after:
One place where TDD really sucks hard is when testing views in an MVC app. Since you are testing a function that returns a fat html string, your are stuck doing html parsing just to see if stuff worked out. Moreover, it can become a maintainability nightmare. One day you move a checkbox around and kaboom, your test is broken. I like TDD for lots of my testing, but it is not the only tool in a programmers belt.
Often times the nature of the cubicle farm itself can lead to this issue. Try to avoid these conditions if you have control over your office environs - If you don't have control over the office environs, here some things you can do - It is necessary to keep a balance being too focused for long periods of time can lead to burn-out. Check out this for some more info.
Eric Evans Lots of high level concepts, its a pretty advanced book that I would not recommend to novice developers. If you are working on a large scale software project with lots of inter-dependencies, this is a great reference.
This is usually a. You can write wonderfully efficient, readable and maintainable code. You can write wonderfully inefficient, unmaintainable piles of mess. When dealing with performance issues, I usually try to think about the business problem I am solving. How will my software behave when my customers use it. Will my applications performance make?
I think so. I anticipate that its popularity will increase over the next couple of years, with recent improvements in the plug-in and the syntactic enhancements coming in Java 7. And it has the advantage of the huge range of good open-source libraries (as compared to.NET) that could easily keep it alive for another 10 years.
I don't think it'll lose relevance. Java 7 is just coming out with a lot of neat features that will help developers create great software easier. Also Java is used to create Blackberry applications; one of the leading corporate mobile phone. It's safe to say it's not going anywhere soon.
If the code has been written in a particular way to avoid a problem present in a library (both a third-party library, or a library that comes with the compiler), then it makes sense to comment it. It also make sense to comment code that needs to be changed in future versions, or when using a new version of a library, or when passing from PHP4 to PHP5, for example.
Yes, it's reasonably normal- most schools, even prestigious ones, do a great job of teaching computer science and a terrible job of teaching software development. This is getting slowly better, but still has a long way to go. Anyway, it sounds like you're doing most of the right things:
I sit next to a couple 50+ year old C# developers. There's no inherent "Too Old," just perceptions on the part of the interviewers. As such, you may have to go the extra mile in convincing people that you're knowledge is up to date. Or become soylent programmer. Either way.:P
The two main criticisms of Singletons fall into two camps from what I've observed: As a result of both of these, a common approach is to use create a broad container object to hold a single instance of these classes and only the container object modifies these types of classes while many other classes can be granted access to them to use from the container object.
I'd say it's because when people first encountered it, it was slow. Based on that, they formed an impression of it. That impression is unlikely to change if they don't use it, and they don't use it because of that impression - it's a vicious cycle. I must admit, I had the impression that Java was slow, and yes, that was from my previous exposure to it. I've now moved on to different languages and have had extremely limited exposure to Java since then. Consequently, my opinion hasn't changed much.
Because it is slow. in some applications. Desktop applications have to be responsive from the beginning and the startup overhead counts as slow. On the other hand if you run a server it does not matter if there is some heating (JIT analysis and compilation) - you do it once in blue moon so most of the time it cannot be considered entirely slow.
My favorite is: It was my first academic text-book 10 years ago, and it still blows my mind how relevant it is in predicting trends in state of the art "Software Engineering", and programming in general. It uses LISP for it's examples, but I don't consider LISP any kind of language, hence it's totally agnostic;)
I'll probably get flamed for this but. 140 characters is hardly the format to get any real pearls of programming wisdom. Most (but not all) programming concepts/thoughts/ideas require more space to be articulated. I would follow the blogs of the list of programmers that everyone is suggesting.
that says interruptions make things seem like they took longer. that says interruptions increase resumption lag time, but that cues seen in the task before the interruption can speed recovery time. takes a significant portion of our work week. on the psychology of interruptions than you can shake a stick at.
Having just got a new job at nearly 50 in the UK I can say that it's possible and you're never too old. There are two approaches - both rely on your skills being relevant to the job.
This is particularly irritating to hear at the moment, I spent some time this weekend looking at very well-named, very clean, uncommented code implementing a research algorithm (one that isn't actually published). I'm high-level familiar with it, the guy sitting next to me was the inventor, and the code was written a few years ago by someone else. We could barely follow it. Your co-worker is not experienced enough, obviously.
There are several languages out there that I consider pretty damn good (C# being my current favorite). Since this is my fantasy language, here's what I really want it to have:
Whitespace Sensitivity. Python annoys me in this respect. I mean, I indent properly anyway, but it bugs me that I should have to. Making presentation part of the syntax irks me.
As, the number 42 has gained pop-culture status via Douglas Adams's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, but its true origins are from (from whom Adams gained occasional inspiration).
Array Declarations in VB.NET I always manage to forget that when initializing fixed arrays in VB.NET, you're specifying the upper bound of the array and not the number of elements like in C/C++, PHP, or Java. Besides VB6 (we won't go there.), I can't think of another language that does it this way:
Semicolon insertion in JavaScript. I haven't really been bitten by it often, but it's just such a phenomenally bad idea it makes my head spin. Here's the rules (from ECMA-262 Section 7.9) Example:
VB6 - Separate Variable Declaration and Assignment Most languages let you declare a variable and assign it in one line of code; VB6, on the other hand, forces you to use two. You can use a colon to put two commands on one line, but it quickly turns messy in actual code.
This might be slightly off topic, but I do remember Jeff Atwood strongly recommending the book. It describes how you should design your website for the best user experience.
So my language would be like the concurrency in Erlang but with the typing as in Haskell and a GUI framework as in WPF.NET.
Yes. When your loops are nested several levels deep, is the only way of elegantly breaking out of an inner loop. The other option is to set a flag and break out of each loop if that flag satisfies a condition. This is really ugly, and pretty error-prone. In these cases, is simply better. Of course, Java's labelled statement does the same thing, but without allowing you to jump to an arbitrary point in the code, which solves the problem neatly without allowing the things that make evil.
This has been discussed several times on Stack Overflow, and Chris Gillum: I'd argue, as many others would argue, that in all of these cases, the usage of is used as a means to get out of a corner one coded oneself into, and is generally a symptom of code that could be refactored.
I think that the limits imposed on correctness proofs because of the might be the biggest barrier to correctness proofs becoming mainstream.
Not really in that sense, but pure functional programming is good in this domain. If you use Haskell, it's likely that your program is correct if the code compiles. Except from IO, a good type system is a good help. Also programming to contract can be helpful. See
In/out arguments. I'm all for in arguments (good thing I am), out arguments are fine too, but an argument that must convey these two states pisses me off. What I target here are functions that take input from a parameter then overwrite that input with some output. It's okay to pass an object by reference to update it. But, mostly for primitive types, taking an object, use it, then change it completely, is not right by me. You shouldn't change the meaning of the argument through an inout.
Semicolons in VBScript - or the lack thereof I spend all day working in languages that expect semicolons at the end of each line. Add one to the end of the line in VBScript and your code doesn't run anymore.
No, it's no longer relevant: 80 characters was really a guideline for fixed-width fonts in a console environment. Of course, if you're still using a fixed-width font in a console environment. then sure, 80 characters is sensible:)
It is probably not relevant to choose exactly a 80 character limit; what would change if the limit is 85, for example? It's true that monitors used nowadays have higher resolutions, but in a text editor/IDE, not all the space is taken from the text view; in the editor I use shows to the left side the list of the files included in the project. The resolution used in a netbook, or a notebook is not the same used in monitors; it probably makes sense to use a character limit that doesn't create "problems" to anybody.
It really depends on the development environment. For example, in a large corporation with thousands of developers, there are probably hundreds of people who will, over the course of a product's lifetime, have to look at some portion of it's code. With that many people, there's bound to be a few who, for whatever reason (older hardware, netbooks, etc) are operating at 800x600 or smaller. There's some value to accommodating them. At my 25-person company, though, I say screw it. We're all using dual modern monitors at the maximum resolution- 120-140 or so is the informal guideline.
I don't think the monitor has anything to do with it - at least not anymore. If you can't code a line in 80 characters, that's probably a sign of bad code anyway. Too complex expressions. Too deep indentation. etc. You should stop and rethink what you are doing. But if you are sure that the code required more than 80 lines, then go ahead and do it. I think it's better to have a code that surpasses the 80 characters than adding idiomatic changes only to make it smaller. I personally hate this kind of stuff: Instead of simply:
If I keep my lines to less than about 100 characters, I can have two editor windows side-by-side on a widescreen monitor. It's very useful to have both the class header file and implementation both visible at the same time, or have code on one side that calls into the code on the other. And, if I keep the lines short, I don't need a horizontal scrollbar on my editor windows, which gives me more vertical space. 80 characters may be outdated, but there's some merit in keeping things within reason.
I imagine the person in my life who could best help me solve the problem, and assuming they aren't available on short notice to help me, go find a place where I can be alone, and explain the problem out loud as if I'm talking to that person. Eventually, in the course of trying to convince them that I /really/ have a problem, I usually come to the same advice that they would have given me.
I try writing about it. First I collect all the the relevant information and list everything I've considered and why it doesn't work. I find it much easier to think when I have it written down all in front of me.
Talking it through with someone is the best solution, but often just stepping away from your computer for a while and looking at it with fresh eyes helps too. Also a lot of my design insights often come when I'm taking a shower or a bath:)
If you are working at home, you can go do jogging outside or take a walk. It's good for your health and it helps to think about the problem on which you are stuck on. If find this to be effective, because it helps me get a better overview of the problem. Sometimes your just focusing on the wrong part of the problem and when you get a better overview of the problem, the solution is easier to find.
First, if some task was assigned to me I would break it down into subtasks.I would estimate the time for each subtasks and probably with subtasks I would be able to find the problematic area and hence I would be able to forecast how long it would take to a certain extent. But still all the planning would help only to a certain extent. Only when you start coding you can find the exact issues
TMHO, this is because of the time needed to start the VM in the browser. If an application starts slowly, people will only remember that. Because, long starting time is really annoying. Really. One of my co-worker told me that he doesn't use Firefox because it is too slow. . But, Yes, Ok, on windows, Firefox takes a huge amount of time to show up. According to him, this app is slow, he made his mind about the general speed of it.
I'm a big fan of stepping away from the computer and doing something else for a while. Fresh eyes and a clear brain work wonders on a problem.
I try to have two or three decently sized tasks before me at all times, so if I get stuck on one, I can take a break and work on the other. This allows me to be productive towards some goal, even if it isn't my primary task at the time. However, if I hit a wall really hard, sometimes I just need to walk away - take 15 minutes, grab a cup of coffee or a soda, take a walk, etc.
Ok, some advantages to TDD: You asked to be convinced, so these were benefits. See for a more balanced view.
Confidently. I can't tell you how many times I botched up an initial meeting with a client by not putting on professionalism when giving an estimate. Even if you're blowing numbers out of thin air - make sure you always keep some estimate around. That said, be careful not to estimate yourself into a hole. Different things take different amount amounts of time, effort and resources to put together. Here's a good way to do it:
Software estimation is the most difficult single task in software engineering- a close second being requirements elicitation. There are a lot of tactics for creating them, all based on getting good requirements first. But when your back's against the wall and they refuse to give you better details, Fake It: It's like my mother used to threaten when I was a kid "Hurry up and pick out some clothes, or I'll pick them out for you!"
Robert C. Martin originally made these points - I can back them up from my own experience: I pretty much do TDD all of the time, whether I'm working on production or play code; I find it difficult to code any other way these days.
Casting to in C. You can cast everything to raw bytes, and do whatever you want with these data. (Yes, nowadays it's unique.)
I'm currently using OneNote from Microsoft to organize and keep record of most of my data, activities and notes. I'm using its online storage to have it automatically shared between my home desktop, personal notebook and office notebook. Unfortunately it has some limits (for example, no integration with eBooks) but it is the most comprehensive and powerful tool I've found. I tried for a while also Evernote and, while its online sharing is quite better and it can be used on Android (my current mobile platform), it is not powerful as OneNote.
Python's decorator. It's extremely easy to implement memoization or timing of function using the decorator. Example of a function timer. Now if you have a function foo you want to time, you can simply do this, You will see something like, Function 'foo' took 3 seconds.
The recommendation (even from Microsoft) is to leave it ON, and also to whenever possible. First of all, it forces the programmer to live with the same "annoyances" a real world user will have (if you don't know it, would you program correctly around it?). Then, disabling UAC and working as an administrator is as bad as in Unix to work as root (decades of common wisdom will tell you why that's bad).
Regardless of whether you program with it on or off, you should test your program with a limited user account. This should catch most problems users might have with running your program with a limited account or the UAC turned-on.
Taking a break to surf the net. Studies have shown that it actually increases adrenaline production due to the large amount of stimulus it provides. Makes sense to me considering that surfing the web usually makes me feel more awake no matter how tired I was the rest of the day.
Caffeine is a major cause of the problem, not the solution. It might seem to work in the short-term but it makes things overall by interfering with your sleep. If you don't sleep properly you will be tired and unfocused. If you try to solve that with a high caffeine intake you won't sleep properly. Exercise, eat well, try to restrict the coffee to a couple of cups a day and don't work stupid long hours.
Team programming is great way to stay awake. Other person is always annoyingly fresh.:) If I am programming alone, I select some rock music.
Coffee, and caffeinated beverages in general, provide a double-action solution to the problem: they work to brighten your smile in the short term, and require you to get up and. relieve yourself periodically thereafter, thus encouraging you to walk and stretch, which is exercise and therefore helpful in relaxing tired muscles and obtaining a good night's rest. Just the thing when you're working stupid long hours. Note that you'll build a tolerance to caffeine after a bit - at that point, pouring the boiling-hot liquid on your lap will serve to shock you awake. TRIPLE ACTION!
I used to drink a lot of coke. I had one night where a project (this was in school) was due at 10am the next morning. I stayed up until midnight helping other people with their projects, then slammed mine out between midnight and 5 am. I found that a can of coke could reliably buy me 20 minutes of reasonably lucid thought, so I went through a couple 12-packs. I then went home, vomited, went to class, and got an A.
Moderator note: this is intended to be a canonical list; please check to see if your suggestion has already been added to the answer. If it hasn't, edit the answer to add yours, preferably with an explanation or reason why you're suggesting it. On Stack Exchange Pick a tag, follow the new questions posted, and try to solve them. If you find a good one, bookmark it for later use: Books Communities and Blogs Game sites and ongoing contests Language specific Online judges / automatic assessment Problem lists and contest archives Security oriented
If you are testing first with Test Driven Development, then your coverage is going to be up in the 90% range or higher, because you won't be adding functionality without first writing a failing unit test for it. If you are adding tests after the fact, then I cannot recommend enough that you get a copy of by and take a look at some of the techniques for both adding tests to your code and ways of refactoring your code to make it more testable.
The worst I was ever asked was: Aside from the fact that most aren't this completely threw me. The answer the interview wanted? This was about 20 years ago now and I still remember it.
This question is so dated and expected that I now use it as a metric. If a company is so far behind that they ask me this, I don't want to work for them.
I was asked the infamous during a job interview: This was terrible for two reasons: Although I got a job offer from this interview, the stupidity of this question and the general zealotry of the interviewer put me off working for the company, so I guess this question was useful for me to help decide not to work there!
"How would you reformat this piece of code here?" They wanted the interviewee to give an answer consistent with the company's coding standards, i.e. guess what that company's standards are. Their style was unusual ( and they required a comment on every statement) so I doubt many candidates would have given the answer they wanted. Fortunately they didn't give too much weight to that question. I scored more points by spotting all the bugs in the example function and they hired me.
There is a that outlines how to keep a record of how accurate your previous estimations have gone, and then next time you say to someone "it'll be two weeks", you can look at your previous history and see how long it actually took last time you said "it'll be two weeks". I haven't tried it myself, but I'd like to, to see how accurate my estimations are.
Present a range based on what you know today. Use the to provide the range around your initial guesstimates. Every week calculate how much is left to do, re-estimate based on what you know. Once you have enough of a sample size of how much work you are getting through each week, provide a 90% confidence interval for what's left to give a (usually) ever narrowing date range as the project progresses and the amount of work left (hopefully) shrinks.
We're often asked for an "ballpark estimate" during meetings where we're given very broad and vauge ideas of what they'd like to do. I always say, "if you want an answer today it's a year and a million dollars. If you'd like to give me a lot more details and some time to review them then I can refine those numbers for you." They almost always get the point.
This is a bit specific to my scenario, but I think it was a great question, nonetheless: The only question I've ever had that actually tested my ability to learn.
How did you get into programming? Nice way to see if the person has a passion for programming and break the ice.
Do they really think people are dumb enough to say that they want to do something completely different? Or don't want to work for them? I guess it can be useful as an indicator of who not to hire but it's so stupid easy to fake that you can't use it as an indicator of who to hire in any way if they answer correctly.
Pushups. Exercise actually increases the amount of energy you have, instead of decreasing it. Plus using a keyboard all day doesn't give you strong arms, or even make you awesome at thumb wars.
I was once asked by a Microsoft recruiter to solve a question which was basically the. I responded by emailing a link to the Wikipedia article.
Code comments are definitely not a "code smell". This belief typically comes from the fact that comments can become stale (out of date) and can be difficult to maintain. However, having good comments which explain why the code is doing something a certain way can (and usually is) important for maintenance.
This is extracted from the below two paragraphs, which not only say why he comes to the above conclusion, but gives information on how to avoid this mistake:
It is well known that a typical CS curriculum does not prepare one for the industry, not as much as it wants you to be prepared anyway. So yes, there's a need for a software engineering major, and the two should be distinct, though definitely in the same faculty.
First, try to prevent yourself from being drowsy: If I feel drowsy anyway, I will: If I want to pull an all night coding session, I will:
I asked a very on Stackoverflow a while ago, and the response the I found most accurate is that it's more about you just being. You really need to know the position you should be in at this point in your career I think. (I posted a this evening)
Generally I think they're a good idea, but since there's not a lot of them around or close to fully baked it very hard to tell how they'd perform in the real world. I wish that MS had updated the Singularity project so that we could see where that was going, but my guess is that some of it is being worked into some version of Windows
IMHO, it boils down to what you are doing. In my current job I dev web apps and windows services. Because of that I find my self more productive with it off. If I was working on apps that a user would install, I would leave it on so I could be as close as possible to what the user would experience.
by Michael Feathers. It contains many good tips of how to get an existing code base under test and manageable, most of which I didn't know about until I read this book. A must read, even if the legacy code you are working with is your own code that you wrote yesterday.
by Steve McConnell. I don't even think it needs explanation. It's the definitive book on software construction. Incredibly well written and covers all aspects of the practical (programming) side of creating software.
This is the book to read on OOP design and architecture. The patterns are good when used properly, but I think the real value of this book is that it gives you a toolbox of ideas to use when designing.
in c++. This operation is useful in dealing with foreign APIs and ensuring numerical precision, why should it be such a pain to type and so ugly to look at?
by Michael Abrash A must-read for realtime programmers - even if the processor specific infomation is dated, the mindset is invaluable.
Does an iPad count? I would like to say my #1 on my bookshelf would be a web browser and ability to search. Online API and references are the best place and it would depend on my current project set.
I think the ideal would be to have no specific distinction between “junior” and “senior” at all. People should be treated as individuals, not as items in a drawer. Similarly, each project should be treated as an individual problem that requires individual skills, talents, or personalities to solve. Any such classification into “junior” and “senior” only serves to turn reality into a coarser and coarser approximation of it and thus makes it less and less likely that the decision made in each individual case is in any sense “ideal”.
Granted, it is very specific, but it is my favourite because obsolete character sets are just too widely used still.
Lambda expressions (closures, nested functions, anonymous methods, whatever you call them). I first came across them in Perl, instantly loved them and wondered why other languages don’t have them. Nowadays I guess it’s not that unique anymore; even PHP have managed to hack them in somehow. But they were semi-unique at the time.
The biggest problem I have seen with macros is that when heavily used they can make code very difficult to read and maintain since they allow you to hide logic in the macro that may or may not be easy to find (and may or may not be trivial).
Mercurial Because of it's sophisticated ability to branch and merge code, it is the best I've used. The whole DVCS paradigm just makes so much sense. I've not used Git, but I suppose that it qualifies as well.
I just counted my books today. 23 of 'em. It depends on what I'm working on. I guess the timeless answer is.
Git Git's fantastic, and I would particularly recommend it to anybody working on open source projects: it's a lot easier to contribute a small, one-off change to a project on Git, especially if its hosted on GitHub, than it is dealing with e-mailing patches about with SVN. One big caveat for Windows users: Git's Windows tools, though definitely useable, aren't quite up to scratch. When I was forced to use Windows for a while, I tried out Mercurial's Windows interface with an Hg-Git integration tool so I could use my Git repositories, and found that a lot easier to use.
I would say any introductory book on graphic design would be useful for a programmer and help them while programming for some aspects of their work. For example:
I think the main reason is that macros are lexical. This has several consequences: Like I said, these are all consequences of the fact that macros are lexical. When you try to turn them into something more proper, you end up with functions and constants.
Can't say that I've encountered the Best version control software, but I can tell you to stay away from VSS and MKS. Both are dogs that should be avoided at all costs.
This is pretty project-dependent. Is this a project I'm starting with the intent of selling, or a project for a specific customer? Also, what constitutes "starting"? Is that before or after requirements gathering? A rough list, though:
Personally, I'd just use a payment processor such as WorldPay if it's a small business. You would have to pay them a commission for processing payments on your behalf, but you don't have to worry too much about security on your end, and the liability for security (IANAL, make sure you read the T&Cs carefully) gets shifted to them.
, by. A great book about visual thinking techniques. There is also an edition now. I can't speak to that version, as I do not own it; yet.
The iOS market has way to many apps in general. Try to make an iPad app. There are less iPad apps out than iPhone/iPod touch. Alternatively, try to make something for a particular (local) business. That way you are guaranteed to get paid (by the business) and you get an app out there that is unique. Games are always good, provided that the gameplay attracts people. Like the speakers at the WWDC 2010 said, watch play testers as they do their thing. It helps a lot with your game development.
You can use a simple checkout service like,, or. Or you can use a service which has an affiliate network like. This will get your product onto hundreds and hundreds of sites, but it is extremely rare to ever have a sale on any of those sites. In my experience 99.999% of sales came directly from my own company website.
When possible, you can encapsulate cross-cutting concerns into separate modules that are then used throughout the app via dependency injection. This allows you to somewhat decouple the cross-cutting concern implementation from it's use throughout the code. This doesn't always work elegantly, though. That's the reason people are trying to address the issue with things like AOP.
Yes. Good object oriented programming promotes separation of concerns, low coupling, high cohesion, and information hiding. These things are all critical to reusable code. I would argue that the main benefit of OOP is modularity and modifiability, rather than reuse, but that's another question.
I think such a language would need an artificial intelligence in place, or at least a system that can learn. The problem is that humans don't know what they want. Also, even writing in classical imperative language we still make logical errors. Imagine trying telling a non-intelligent software what he has to do.
What you're describing sounds less like programming and more like using an application. Some problems you'd have to address in such a system:
I'm an asp.net newbie, having been working with it for only about 3 months, though I've played with membership a little bit. That said, I've never heard of dcpromo. Just my 2 cents.
No, not necessarily. Objects deliver better semantics, organization of code/functionality and, possibly, ease-of-use. Well designed libraries deliver on the promise of code reuse, not objects per se.
I would say I prefer readability, though that sometimes means using concise code. (I.e. ternary for relatively simple conditionals inside a larger conditional block.) Basically, if it is unnecessarily difficult to understand, don't do it.
While both are good goals, I'll always side with Readability when forced to choose one. I would argue that your example improves both readability and brevity. Consider, however: as opposed to The latter is concise, but is difficult to read through. The former is verbose, but the flow of logic is clear. Ultimately, brevity doesn't serve much of a purpose, other than the ability to fit more on the screen. Readability makes it easier to debug, and so should generally be preferred.
Never. Heck, it's been years since I last created any UML. Line diagrams on whiteboards and scraps of paper don't count. In fact, we just removed the sole UML question from the guide we use during interviews, because none of us really cared about the answers.
by. If you haven't read this, put it on your list. It's still breathtaking over 30 years later. While contains a more complete and convincing argument about where consciousness comes from, GEB explores the realms of symmetry, intelligence and logic systems through the music of Bach, the mathematics of Gödel and the art of Escher. It's as infuriating and entertaining as it sounds.
I've been a Microsoft developer for 11 years, mostly as a web developer. Been coding since 1.1 and I've used.NET membership in many of my applications, and I've never heard of dcpromo.
I use just enough UML (in terms of both the types of diagrams and the content of the information in the diagram) to get my point across to allow myself or someone else to implement the system or subsystem. And the only reason I use UML is because its a widely known set of symbols that each mean something very specific, so there's no ambiguity - any software engineer should be able to look at the diagram and understand what I'm trying to say about the system.
Spaces, because when you align comments to the right of code, or function parameter lists, or complex multiline expressions, or things of that nature, you want your beautiful work to appear right for everyone. If you use tabs and allow people to set their tabstops differently, they will break alignment for all but the simplest cases of code indenting. Besides, it's blatantly obvious that everyone in the world should be using vim, which makes it trivial to indent, unindent, and navigate through "tab stops" even in space-indented files.
I know this is a pretty hard question. I did two subjects with where I mainly programmed in C++ and got high distinctions in both. I wouldn't consider myself good at C++. In fact, if I was applying for a job, I would leave it off my resume and just write C instead. The whole language just isn't my thing.
Since there is no standardized programming test that you can take that will allow everyone to agree that you are a good programmer, it's up to you to determine whether you call your self that or not. I find that it has to do with your confidence level. If you FEEL you are good at something then you should be able to say it. At somepoint you'll complete a project that pushed you and that feeling will change from 'not yet' to 'I am'.
Since good is very subjective, I would say you are good exactly when you are confident that you are great.
I would say as a general rule never sacrifice readability because of conciseness, but never judge readability based on another programmers lack of knowledge on that subject. Conciseness and readability are not opposites. Like this answer, sometimes shorter is more readable.
I don't expect ALL objects to be reused but we do have a lot of object that we reuse on many different projects. We also have objects that just get reused on one project. We often will consume the same business objects (or data transfer objects) as well as business logic objects from a Click-Once desktop app, a web app and a phone app all for the same project. Where have you heard that OO doesn't deliver on reuse? And what was the reasoning? Perhaps the design of their objects forced them into that situation.
We use it in our company for the project I'm involved in. Some notes about planning poker are expressed in, and here's a bigger list of why it's cool: A company that sells decks of such cards accompanied their site with an, which is also worth reading.
One aspect that I don't think has been mentioned yet: what are your goals? If all you care about is job security, go for conciseness & compactness over everything else. Skip commenting your code, too. If you want to be able to easily hand your code off to someone else while you go work on a cool new project, go for readability, clarity, and lots of solid comments. Note: the above isn't about you personally, @Damovisa; it's for anyone choosing between the two positions.
I agree with Pavel's points. There's also one other thing that is valuable. It levels the playing field for discussion. Often quiet people are drowned out by more verbal people in a group discussion. Planning poker gives everybody a chance to make their decision before the active discussion begin. And if it the quiet person who provides the "outlier" opinion, they have the full stage on which to present their case. Therefore the technique is empowers the quieter contributors, and ensures full team participation.
I like Pavel's points and would like to add that it really helps junior developers or noobs learn a lot faster. They can't just sit back and let the senior developers rule. Their vote counts just as much and if they really focus on making their estimates accurate they will learn a lot from the senior developers.
I prefer C#. I started as VB.NET programmer but with passing of time it became obvious that quite a lot of new features are coming first to C# and then later to VB.NET (e.g. automatic property). And community surrounding C# is much more lively than VB.NETs one. Additionally, if you intend to learn Java or similar language, C# is better starting point - syntax is almost same in all C-derived languages. Although this would not be tipping point for me since syntax is something you can learn quickly anyhow.
I came to.NET from C and C++ (with a bit of Java, Ada and Pascal thrown in) so C# was the natural progression for me. If a job came along that required VB.NET I certainly wouldn't turn it down.
I prefer the bracket syntax of C-style languages to the more "verbose" syntax of BASIC-style languages. My introduction to programming was with Turbo Pascal. (The bit of BASIC programming I did on the Commodore 64, as a child, doesn't really count.) After learning Java I never looked back and have preferred C-style syntax.
Another point for "slowness" of Java is the 64bit runtime. I've heard some people complain that Java is very slow for them on 64bit computers. As it turns out, 64bit Java runtime uses server JVM which compiles whole program before starting. is explanation why 64bit VM starts slower. For example on Windows:
They are functionally the same, there is nothing you can do in one you can't do in the other, and for the future Microsoft have pledged that the language teams will develop both evenly so this is equivalence unlikely to change. The differences now are purely cultural and personal. [Note: Although I'm a C# dev myself, the linked article's conclusion does not necessarily reflect my personal opinion, it's just an interesting alternative approach in the debate]
Some of the best testers I've worked with really understand how the users are going to use the software. They understand what business function the software is supposed to play and how that software will effect the user's role/job/function. It makes for a successful project when the tester has as much knowledge of the business as the developer and the business owner.
I think if it is a true beginner there's a good chance they don't know there is an error message at all. They only know it doesn't run and that there is an error. For example in Visual studio they may not see that part of the screen. Basically they don't know which part of the information they have available is useful to figure out what the problem is. If they did there would be a better chance they could fix it themselves and not ask about it in the first place.
One is good at something only when they can confidently and correctly say they can do it. If you want to say you're good at C++, for example, you ought to be able to say, with confidence and justification, that given a general problem using C++, you can solve it. This provides a distinction from being cocky, which would be to confidently say you can do something without sufficient justification; and experienced, which would be to say you can do something because you have done it in the past.
I think you can call yourself good at something when you develop the required knowledge to be able to look at yourself as if from another person's perspective, and then determine if you are good. In other words, you should have strong "meta" skills. For example, I'm a hobbyist writer, and when looking at my own writing I can tell: etc. etc. Because of this I feel that I'm qualified to decide if I'm good at writing or not. The same applies to X.
Use it. If you do functional programming daily, maybe smaller applications or exercises from books, then you will be better on it. I have used it since the first programming lecture in university. At the beginning it was very hard, because it is so different, but now I prefer it to imperative programming. If you are looking for a good book, I would recommend by and
Two answers: 1)Android 2)Blackberry Seriously though, on the desktop, it may be in decline, but it powers the two competitors to iPhone. Also, last year, I helped a bunch of people with Java homework for school. Point being, java is still taught in colleges. Edit: As of October 2011, BlackBerry seems to be in decline. Android is still going strong.
Design for Concurrency That is, as you're coding, plan around having multiple threads going. Plan the shared state (often just the db). Plan for multiple processes. Plan for physical distribution. This allows you to distribute your system across multiple machines, and across multiple processes with load balancing. It allows you to have redundant processes running in case of failure, and in case you need to modify the system in-place, you don't have to kill all service to do so.
if your re-deployement require downtime, then client may be unhappy about that. Also it depends on the frequency whether its daily weekly or monthly. My last project has a regular outage window at 2nd sat of every month with client's approval. You may check for any accepted outage window with your client.
Unfortunately not. So everyone has its own way to use spacing, indentation, and so on, everything mixed (this way we don't even have to use the "blame" function to know who is the author of a line of code!) But, even worst, someone writes variable and class names in Italian, someone else in English. I always adapt my style to that of the language, library and framework I'm using, so that a source code looks uniform and plain.
I think it's essential to have a coding standard, even if all it says is "we use 3-space indentation and open-brackets go on the next line." A few benefits: In terms of whether to adopt an existing standard, it doesn't really matter- consistency is what's important. If your developers have a dozen different styles, you might as well pick an existing, published one. If you've all evolved into a pretty consistent style, just write that down and use it.
It's important for a team to have a single coding standard for each language to avoid several problems: I'm a big fan of what about standards:
Had a professor once who demanded we have at least one comment for each line of code. It was pretty ridiculous.
I used UML very regularly for about four years for a product that generated all (most) of its code skeletons from Rational Rose. The last five years there have been more of "boxes and arrows" mostly invented on the spot and usually enough to get the general idea across. Formally correct UML only a few times during this time.
Ironically, UML is supposed to be flexible. In the real world, it is not supposed to be a pedantic exercise in doing it one right way. It is about effectively communicating and documenting a system/process/idea. To answer your question, I'm with the others. I've never fully utilized full-on, formal UML.
All interaction with the database has to be done through. It might make sense if we're living in 1997 and not 2010. I just realized that this actually covers all the criteria of the original question:
I like to use. RescueTime gives you a note between -2 and 2 to yours productivity. For me it is a challenge to have a note next to 2.
I'm of the opinion that code coverage alone is a poor metric. It's easy to produce tons of useless tests that cover the code, but don't adequately check the output, or don't test edge cases, for example. Covering code just means it doesn't throw an exception, not that it's right. You need quality tests- the quantity isn't that important.
I think it's generally easy to spot a failing project when the deadline is approaching. Like you said, feature creep combined with a set-in-stone deadline is a sure way of killing a project. The key however is to spot a failing project way in advance. I think the only real 'sign of doom' in this case would be a complete lack of the definition of 'when are we finished'. Unless we know this at the offset we're doomed for failure IMO.
Management Disconnect When those responsible for deadlines, features, staffing, etc get disconnected from the people responsible for delivering the project. This can lead to: So, when it looks like management is uninterested in the project, is communicating poorly, isn't listening to the customers, or isn't listening to the dev team, run for the hills.
Heroic Coding Coding late into the night, working long hours, and clocking lots of overtime are a sure sign that something went wrong. Further, my experience is that if you see someone working late at any point in the project, it only ever gets worse. He might be doing it just to get his one feature back on schedule, and he might succeed; however, cowboy coding like that is almost always the result of a planning failure that will inevitably cause more of it soon. So, the earlier in the project you see it, the worse it will eventually become.
To me the single biggest problem, and one you can spot immediately, is when business considers written requirements as a waste of time. So basically; No Written Requirements It's the kiss of death.
I try to explain it in terms of solving a problem. I just choose to use a computer program to solve the problem. That way you can discuss what you have done in terms of the problem you are trying to solve. Once they understand that, the jump to solving it through programming is not very far and can usually be made by non techie types.
A new tool as a problem solver. When people start planning to use unfamiliar tools, I don't mind, but I keep my eye on it. When they start planning all the advertised benefits of those tools into the schedule, I get worried. Fun examples: New technologies and practices are great, but you almost never get all the benefits out of the gate.
If the project plan calls for a single iteration of design, development, testing and deployment - the classic waterfall - for a project longer than 1 month, I'd run a mile. You don't need to be fully agile, but having short development cycles allows you to demonstrate progress to everyone (customer, management and developers themselves) and cope with changed requirements when the inevitable happens.
I don't even try. If they aren't tech oriented enough to have at least a basic understanding of programming, I am only going to bore them with the details. Usually I just go with something very high level like "I create web sites" or "I write computer programs to do X"
If you are talking about a hosted web application, the users don't get a say-so in when they get upgrades. That is, they are forced to upgrade each time you do a push to production. If your changes dramatically change the system rules or UI, you should definitely consider bundling your releases and doing it less frequently. It is very frustrating to users to have to continually re-learn how to use the tools they rely on and violates the UI principle of making them feel they are in control of their computer/software.
This may ruffle a few feathers, but standards that mandate templated block comments at the top of each method always bug the crap out of me. 1) They are always out of date since they are too far from the code that does the actual work to notice when you are updating things. Bad comments are worse than no comments. 2) They often just repeat information that is already contained the source control tool, just less accurate. For example: Last Modified by, list of modification date/reasons.
Because compiler errors/exceptions require you to know what you're doing wrong to fix it. They're for programmers who overlook stuff, not for people who don't understand them. They're also not always the most obvious. An error like "unexpected if" isn't that intuitive. "But that if should be there" is the response of a newbie. A more experienced programmer knows that that means he's forgotten the semicolon on the preceeding line.
It worked on MY computer!" -anon "Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute." - Abelson and Sussman, from "The structure and interpretation of computer programs
"How to solve it" by George Pólya. While targeted for mathematics, the problem solving strategies can readily be applied to programming.
Coding Standard discussions come down to this: If you're developing in C# in Visual Studio, then is a silver bullet. If you're also using ReSharper, then the plugin is just awesome.
I'm from and I code strictly in English. I have seen different programs coded in Slovenian because the client demanded so. Apparently it's easier to read the code like that. So yes, people don't only code in English. And I'm talking about the code itself, not software localization.
I'm from Italy but I'm not sure what you're asking. If you're talking about naming objects, yes, we do that in English. Usually students name their objects in Italian for learning purposes. But personally I find it difficult and prefer to use English, since some technical terms are extremely awful in Italian.
In one job we were forced to use some weird form of in the database. I can't remember the details, but from memory, each field name had to contain: For example, the column holding a person's first name might be called: (Person table, First Name column, Varchar 30 characters, Not Null)
I have never seen anyone use non-English names in code here in Israel, but my experience is limited to university projects. At any rate, I personally only code in English, and I actually also type all my emails and homework assignment in English. This is mainly because Hebrew is written right to left, and it can be very annoying incorporating English terms into the text.
I'm Italian and always use English, for names and comments. But many other Italian programmers use Italian language, or more often a strange English-Italian mix (something like). A real life code sample: By the way, the Visual Studio MFC wizard creates a skeleton application with localized comments:
I'm from Egypt. I think we switch to English by default when we talk, or even think about code. Most of the learning resources - regular ones like books, and even blogs, podcasts and so on - are in English. Switching to your mother tongue means turning your back to lots of great resources. I guess this post might convey my point, via Jeff Atwood:
Developers Running Wild on the Range This has happened when you realise that other developers (or, unfortunately, you) have developed a component that varies significantly from the design, and that this isn't picked up up until well into system/UAT testing. I'm not talking bugs; I'm talking about significant system components are missing features or have unasked for functionality and are never going to pass UAT without significant rework. This issue indicates that:
Laziness is not an excuse for not following the standard. Sometimes, if the standard is stupid, that is a reason not to follow it. How do you know when the standard is stupid? When you have been making a good faith effort over an extended period to follow all the relevant standards in letter and in spirit and you've come to a reasonable and well-supported conclusion that the standard in some niche case is actually at fault, not you. Most of the time, this will not be applicable though.
Frequent short breaks at regular intervals (get up from chair, and think of something else for a few minutes). Then a longer break after 4 short ones.
Depends on the company. A lot of companies offer two paths for advancing developers: technical and management. If you prefer technical, you move slowly up the pay grade, developing valuable dev skills, but sticking with development- you become a guru. It's less money than going management, but if you want to hack 'till you die, it's the way to go.
Yeah, we do. I'm from Uruguay and we usually code with variable names in English. Some people leave comments in Spanish, but I find that a bit awkward. In a previous job we were forced to use Spanish for variables and methods, and I hated it.
Last year at the Over the Air conference and hack day in London - a gathering of mobile developers - they had a Qi Gong guy come in and do half an hour of stretching and exercise, after a lot of people had been up all night programming. Half an hour of exercise out in the fresh air was a really good wake-up, even if we did all feel a bit silly with all the stuff about balls of qi energy and the like.
Even for personal projects I tend to use English mostly because it's easier to ask questions about the code on Stack Overflow or other websites. The same goes for my operating system - I only use English. I had a Dutch operating system once, and it's really horrible to google for errors or information. There is one advantage of coding in another language and that is that you most likely won't run into conflicting or reserved words.
I work for a software editor in France. Code is always in English. The variables and function names are all in English even if mistakes occur sometimes. The worst mix of French and English I encountered was "connexionKey". On the other hand, comments are not always in English depending on how confortable the developer is writing English.
In the Visual Studio editor, most of the places we deal with non-English bugs are in comments, and they are most east-Asian languages ((IME) related). I'm pretty sure I just saw one the other day where right-to-left text in comments displays incorrectly in quick info or parameter help, so there are certainly people doing it:)
At my company, the management and individual contributor tracks are separate and mostly parallel. Individual contributors can rise very high in the company (up to Technical Fellow) without being a people manager. It helps to partially avoid the, though never completely.
We aim for at least 70%. On things that are more easily testable (functional data structures, for example), we aim for 90% and most individuals aim for as near to 100% as possible. On WPF-related things and other frameworks that are very difficult to test, we get much lower coverage (barely 70%).
It's one of the few programming books that I've kept from when I first started programming. I used to lend this out a lot to people who were first starting out. Now, not so much, since C isn't very many people's first programming language anymore. It does a wonderful job of describing what is happening behind the scenes and its descriptions about pointers brings real clarity to what is otherwise a very confusing topic for many.
In France, many people tend to code using French objects/methods/variables names if they work with non English speaking colleagues. However, it is really depends on your environment. The thumb rule is 'the more skilled people you are working / the projects you are working on are, the more likely it is that it is going to be in English'/ It seems to be the same in Germany.
I'd say that thorough knowledge of the syntactical oddities of your language help. Here is one I found in Ruby when doing a bit of code golf: Instead of You can do something like this: With this kind of thing, you too can write incredibly elaborate Ruby one-liners! In Ruby and Perl, you also get the magic variables like "$_" which can be used to do all sorts of magic with strings and regexes. Is your data not strings? Well, you might want to turn it into strings. Obviously, in C, the preprocessor is your friend.
Like a lot of programmers (but not enough), I hate code decoration. It infuriates me when I have to use a dollar sign prefix for variable names, or underscores for private variables, even with no getters/setters. If you need to decorate you code to understand it, then you need to get the hell out!
Assuming you have an external monitor and keyboard to connect to your laptop the difference is small. It is always better to work in a desktop like setting (bigger screen realestate, more ergonomic environment), but you can't take your work with you without a laptop. So if portability is important, get a laptop and a good external screen and keyboard to connect it to. Otherwise you might as well stay with a desktop.
namespace syntax in PHP The syntax is not only ugly, it leads to confusion when newer developers have to think about namespaces in strings. (PHP interpolates backslashes in double-quoted strings as escape sequences. Trying to represent a namespace like in a double-quoted string instead of a single-quoted string will lead to newlines, tabs and disaster.)
I agree with EpsilonVector, the big issue is monitor space. A laptop can usually support a second monitor. But a desktop can support or monitors. The more, the better.
I'm from Quebec and a French speaking person, but all my code, comment and documentation is always done in English. But I know some companies in Quebec that enforce French in the code (comments and object/variable naming).
I'm from Bangalore, India. Programmers are from various states with. We code in English, document in English, comment in English, naming convention is in English. English is our common language while talking in office.
The release timetable is not unusual for languages, and it's not even: 5.0 was released in 2004, but 4.0 was released in 2000. Compare this to the last stable releases for C , Fortran , or C++ . One other thing to keep in mind is that 5.3 was a major release in all but name. It adds a lot of stuff that was. Due to development problems with unicode support (a major part of PHP 6), it was decided to release what was stable at the time as a 5.x branch.
I'd go for laptops with external monitors. It's perfect for situations where you get tired of coding on your desk and you want to go somewhere else to code. You can also take it with you around the office in case you want to show or discuss your code with your officemates personally while not having them go all the way to your far away desk.
When I do a Code Golf challenge, I inevitably reach for a common set of design patterns that inevitably lead to shorter code: this set increases over time as more code golf challenges are done or just in the course of normal use of a language. For example, if I need to have an incremental loop, one thing I might do normally is: or But this always works too: Other things include:
I used to work for IBM where COBOL and PL/I code was written every day. Also from big companies relying on IBMs mainframes like many banks which require thousands of transactions per second those languages are still heavilly used. If you don't want to work in a place like that (That's why I just worked there for 6 months) then don't even think of learning those languages.
I live and work in the Netherlands, but all the code we write is in English. Here are some reasons I can think of why we code in English: The only reason I can think of why you would not code in English, is in the context of. Practicing DDD includes defining a ubiquitous language with your client. If your client demands the use of non-English terms, it would be unwise to translate these terms to English in your code; it defeats the purpose of the ubiquitous language.
I think the rule is quite simple: imagine a complete stranger seeing your code. You probably will be a stranger to your own code in 5 years. Try to minimize the mental effort to understand your code for this stranger.
Good, that's a relief! I think not having daily, helpful management oversight is key to spotting creep. I believe that if you have the right information, if you get your devs to input the right information, then you can spot slippage quite quickly. What you do with it after that - well that's more politics and less dev.
I'm from Sweden and both me and my colleagues code in English. I think this is a good thing, but sometimes it can be difficult to come up with English equivalents to customer specific terms and expressions. My reasons for writing code in English:
A lot of european companies still rely heavily on mainframes running like z/vse and cobol programs. There is a demand for skilled cobol programmers that noone thinks the market will fill which drives up the salary, a lot. The question should be, "will I ever develop something new using cobol?" since pretty much everything is maintenance or variations of existing mission critical stuff.
Not really a programming quote, more of an IT one, but one that my A-Level IT teacher drummed into me aged 16:
I'm going to recommend a triplet of books that are about being a programmer (rather than programming), or a leader of programmers. While all are over 30 years since their original publication all are (especially with updates, commentary in their anniversary editions):
I am from England, and I try to code (and post on sites like) in US English, because that is the established international language for programming. I think I am in the minority though. Some British programmers I know insist on using British spellings even when collaborating with other coders who are using US English and can get upset when an American or Indian colleague edits their comments to change from British to US English (don't try that on.)
From India, like someone else said we are 100% English! But I have also worked in Germany for a short while. The Germans used to do it like the Italians (like Lorenzo said). But bigger companies like Siemens etc. have standardised on English. It's much easier to delegate your work outside of your base country when all of your documentation and code is in English.
I'm from, but I'm always use English for comments. And as I know a lot of Belarus programmers use English as primary language for coding.
I'm surely the weird one: I use a language that is tokenized, and so even the language itself can be displayed in your own native language (French, English, German, Spanish and Japanese). It's an RBDMS language born in the 1980s, called. Have a look at the Language Command translation by clicking on the flags icons. Hereunder you can see the same code seen with French and English settings.
It's been a while since I read it, but I don't remember anything in the book that wasn't relevant to someone. What stood out the most was the discussion of process improvement using CMM and CMMI, and no mention of agile processes (although the second edition was printed in 1999, which is a few years before the Manifesto for Agile Software Development and agile development went mainstream). But the book is about people, and people haven't changed that much since the first printing of the book in 1987.
I (dutchy) always code in English, it just makes much more sense, all the language keywords, etc. are in English, so why not code the rest in English?:) I always put all comments in English as well. You never know who will have to edit your code, they might not speak your native language.
If you can see yourself as COBOL programmer, then go for it. There are still billions of lines written in COBOL that require maintenance. Actually, there is no such thing as unnecessary knowledge, so broaden the knowledge and wider opportunities you (will) have.
Being from the Netherlands I've had the nasty experience of being forced to write comments (and even variable names) in Dutch at school. Most of the time I rejected this attitude and wrote all that in pure English regardless, along with several other students that already had programming experience or learned fast. In all the companies I've worked for the only use of Dutch was for strings the end-user could or would see, all other text (non-user documentation included) was in English.
I have run into similar problems where I work. I heard "What is PHP?" several years ago. They don't understand or care to learn anything outside of the MS stack. If python is the right tool for the job I'd just tell my supervisors about it and be ready for alot of comparison and explaining as to why python was the right choice. It will be frustrating, but I think most would agree python is a good choice for text manipulation.
I can't give you a full answer as to what you should do. I can only give a single suggestion you can use to start with: Check the scripts into a repository that all (required) developers can access. But make very sure to make note of the fact that you've first written these scripts for your own purpose, i.e. to perform a task you'd been given. Then add that you're only checking in these scripts to allow others the advantage to use them. After that you'll just need to see how other people respond to that.
I'm French. As has been pointed out in comments, my countrymen tend to exhibit an above-average pride in the national language:-). I take a pragmatic position on the issue myself:
"Are you sure you want to delete this file/record? Yes/No". Clicked yes and then got a call that it "mistakenly" clicked the red delete button and it needs that data back:)
If we use something other than Java, C# and C++ in our project, we won't find any programmers to support it.
From Brazil, I write generic code in English but I prefer to use Portuguese when programming near to domain application. Some terms don't fit well in application when using alien words to domain. At same time, there is a clear separation between generic coding and domain coding.
If you talking about using a native language on programming language own statements and API, well, in this case I can say I see in the past a very popular product in Brazil derived from xBase but whole in Portuguese. If Se While Enquanto Left Esquerda Create Criar etc But I think this kind of languages doesn't get too much successful.
The fact that marketing seems to think that adding a ton of small features is less work than adding a single, but rather heavy, feature. Which probably is a more specific case of the misconception that "task-switching has no overhead".
That writing software is easy. How else do you explain all these projects that run over time and over budget and people (politicians, the media etc.) are still surprised, and customers complain when you tell them that their "small website" (or whatever) will actually take 6 months to develop and cost several thousand dollars (pounds, Euros, [insert currency of choice]) With fuzzy and ever changing requirements I sometimes think that it's amazing that any software ever gets finished! I know it's a bit more complicated than that;)
-Richard Feynman (Rogers' Commission Report into the Challenger Crash, Appendix F - Personal Observations on Reliability of Shuttle) More succinctly: -Andrew Stevenson
Bug free software. Later I came to know that every program would still run with Bugs and whole play was about accomplishing customer Requirements.
That's it's harder than you think. While it's easy (ish) to put something together that works when used normally, coping with erroneous input, all the edge and corner cases, possible failure modes etc. is time consuming and will probably be the hardest part of the job. Then you've got to make the application look good too.
I don't think users are stupid. They don't want to use your or any program at all. All they want is to get their things done. Help them and prevent harm from happening to them along the way.
Most of the books by the Pragmatic Programmers are well worth reading. They have an entire section in their catalog on. I can recommend The Pragmatic Programmer (old, but good), Pragmatic Thinking and Learning, and The Passionate Programmer.
I once got a customer support call because my app just disappeared. Turned out they opened another app on top of it.. I decided not to ensure that didn't happen again, since it was the users computer illiteracy that caused the problem, not the app. Anything I could have done to fix it would have lead to a poor user experience for others.
I think the biggest misconception is that it's more important being able to write the code down easily than being able to read and understand the code.
Why don't you guys simply write it right the first time, rather than spending so much time typing in buggy code and then later reading the code trying to find the bugs?:-):-):-):-)
Yes, there are reasons to limit code line length: Having said that, 80 is a bit too little. But, still, some limitation is probably a good idea as a design principle. I would say that extra long lines shouldn't be disallowed, because occasionally they are necessary. But if most functions are only viewable on a 30" screen then the code has some issues.
I'm form Quebec and I saw a lot of programmers prefer to code in English. I got a good quote for you. So you could find gems like: In clear, it's better to code in your native language if you don't master the target language. otherwise, it's just obfuscate the code.
To coding? Certainly yes. Normal human been can't read well too wide. With few columns you move your eyes less, you focus better and delay the tiredness. It's a minimum gain but an important one.
As long as the computer understands the code you type in, that's all that matters. Therefore typing in comments and using variable names that are more than two letters long is a waste of time.:-(
When management is too weak to say "No" to the business. It leads to deadlines that will never be met, which leads to a lack of confidence in the IT department which leads to developers creating hacks (i.e. access db running on someone's machine.somewhere) which leads to a nightmare for IT when the 'critical system' has to be migrated which leads to.
Every programmer should know that he's putting assumptions in code all the time, e.g. "this number will be positive and finite", "this code will be able to connect to the server all the time within a blink of an eye". And he should know that he should prepare for when those assumptions break.
I don't know. What definitely makes unit testing more enjoyable to me is the thought of all the frustrating, lengthy, boring and unrewarding debugging I will not have go through every time I make a change in the software:)
Keyboarding form is related to programming ability. Seriously, one of the teachers at my high school told me, "You can't code quickly if you can't type quickly." My response was, "That's like saying I can only write the Great American Novel if I do it in cursive."
That commenting code is unnecessary, or that "good code doesn't need comments". Sometimes you need to explain what a complex bit of code is doing. Furthermore, commenting sections of code helps you skim read much more effectively.
Many people tend to think that JavaScript is similar to C++ and don't understand that it actually uses prototype inheritance.
Yes. I set up delegation on my own site, so I just use one of my own URLs. Easy to remember, and doesn't tie me to a provider.
Every programmer should know the "science" in Computer Science (design patterns, algorithms, objects, etc.) if you can master that, you can program using any language, it is just a matter of getting used to the syntax.
If you're not typing, you're not working. I believe zombie blank stares and coffee walks are essential to programmers organising things in their heads.
That programming languages change all the time. This might have been a long time ago in the past. But nowadays the changes are mostly extra features which try not to break existing code.
Generally speaking, it's best to leave blisters undisturbed. Unroofing the blister completely is definitely ill-advised, as it exposes the entire dermis underneath, removing a primary barrier to infection. Cover it loosely with rolled gauze and leave it alone; it will either drain on its own, or reabsorb the fluid over time.
Certainly not. By definition, it cannot break down poisons (at least not quickly enough) to stop the body being harmed or killed. In addition, it can not break down (or "neutralize") many radioactive substances. A famous example of this was the murder of:
Actually, in the case of most drugs, it has nothing to do with the immune system per se. Generally, drugs are either chemically modified (often in the liver) to make them inert, or excreted (either in the urine or the stool) thus removing them from the body. When the liver or the kidneys are not working properly, drugs fail to be excreted or digested, resulting in accumulation, which may be toxic.
Calcium carbonate is largely insoluble in aqueous solutions; you need stomach acid to change it into calcium BIcarbonate, which is much more soluble. Calcium-fortified foods are generally fortified with other calcium salts which are more soluble, such as calcium acetate, calcium lactate, or calcium gluconate, unless the food is high in acid.
Like many medications you want to use the amount necessary, no more, no less. (and similar products). I would mention a few particular reasons: In short it's pretty common to always use the smallest amount of pharmacology to achieve whatever ends. The more medicine you use, the greater the chance of side effects and the greater their impact will be.
The source does not explicitly tell the long-term story, but I presume that since those particles are actual matter inside your eye (due to the ageing process as your body slowly disseminates), then they would not dissolve with the time, nor leave the eye-ball. Logically, they might stick to the wall of an eye-ball or something similar. Nor is it likely that the new particles would occur very often. But that is just an educated guess based on the source (TED-Ed):
The IARC has concluded that due to the amount of evidence going both directions. The gist of it is summarised on the website itself:
The is that Type 1 diabetes is an, a disease that is caused by the body's own immune system attacking and destroying insulin-producing cells, called (which are located in the). 1 What, exactly, kicks off this autoimmune response. Some options are, and different components of the environment, like, and certain and. According to diabetes professional: See for info on Type 2 Diabetes. 1 Funny what I could have told you as a five-year-old
High consumption of sugar can up the risk of diabetes, but it is not the only contributing factor. There have been studies that have shown that sugar-sweetened drinks (mainly soda) have increased the probability of type 2 diabetes. There is a less subtle way that sugar can cause diabetes, which is by weight gain. Obesity has been shown to cause diabetes and too much sugar can cause obesity, so technically sugar can cause obesity. In conclusion, sugar is fine in moderation (as most things are) and usually it won't cause diabetes. There are some links between the two though.
Basically, something falls under the classification of "inflammed" based on the following five criteria: If any of these apply to your tendinopathy, then it is probably tendinitis. Otherwise, it's probably non-inflammatory.
As a rule of thumb: anywhere that blood is coming out, you should be assuming that pathogens can be transferred in. In this situation I would smear with antibiotic ointment and wrap with sterile gauze every day (and after every shower) until the cracking-and-bleeding-with-motion stops.
This is debunked with little reference on. It is claimed there that the origin of the myth was deliberate misinformation to hide the use of a game-changing technology used by the RAF to shoot down German planes. This claim regarding the propaganda origin is sourced a bit better at the. The grain-of-truth (which probably helps perpetuate the myth) is mentioned in the Snopes article as well and partially backed up at the (archived) that they link to:
Overloading on vitamin C won't cause death. At around 1000 mg, you will probably have nausea, diarrhea, and stomach aches. 2000 mg is the daily limit, and if you get that high, you will experience more severe side-affects such as severe headaches, vomiting, heartburn, insomnia, and even kidney stones. You probably shouldn't have that much vitamin C, so if you have to take multiple 1000 mg doses everyday, you should talk to your doctor. In conclusion, taking that much vitamin C is not necessarily "dangerous", but it can lead to major discomfort and could possible put you in the hospital.
Meat mostly provides you with protein and fat, so you'll have to make up for this. This will be easier for an ovo-lacto vegetarian. Sources of fat Nuts, nut butters (peanut butter, almond butter, etc.), oils, avocados Sources of protein Nuts, nut butters, eggs, dairy, soy foods (tofu, soy milk) Vitamin B12 Cow milk, soy milk, eggs, fortified cereals (Multi-Grain Cheerios, Corn Flakes, Special K)
The anti-biotic could possibly be having an antidiuretic effect. This reduces the amount of water in urine, and so the natural yellow hue is intensified. There is a definition of an. The key element of the body's natural ability to retain urine is. There are natural remedies for both urine retention and lack of urine retention. Try:
These are some reasons: One more note in terms of health: free sugars have no minerals, vitamins nor fiber, that are usually contained in fruits and fruit juices.
You can't reverse the skin damage, but you can treat wounds and burns, so your skin cell can regenerate faster. Eating food full of antioxidants and vitamin C, such as blueberries, tomatoes, and cherries can reduce the body’s need for fluids, lowering only the risk for dehydration . If you have a skin sunburn, here are few advices: If you've signs of heatstroke or dehydration such as weak, faint, dizzy, rapid breathing, your eyes hurt, vomiting/diarrhea or something similar - call a doctor.
In first aid, we normally leave blisters alone. But there is one exception. In multi day walking events, there is a protocol to treat blisters. If the blister is open or it contains blood, consult a medical professional.
Some studies have shown that eye patching has been effective in adults. One study tested teenagers ages 13-17 and found that, combined with glasses and near vision activity, patching was effective in treating lazy eye. In fact there have been studies on treatment of amblyopia in older children/adults as early as 1957, but this study was only performed on seven cases of amblyopia, so while it did show that patching combined with vision therapy did help treat amblyopia. Luckily, scientists have developed other ways to treat it, such as playing Tetris.
The reason drugs with adverse side effects are prescribed are Doctors only prescribe untested drugs to terminal ill patients who sign numerous waivers in order to take them. So on average, a patient should only rarely experience the side effects and usually the milder ones will present; however, some people will present with the more serious adverse reactions. Additionally, if any side effect does present itself, the patient should consult their physician since alternatives may be available.
Dairy products are not the best source of calcium for many reasons. Though dairy products are a convenient source, and they are high in protein and vitamins A and D, they are not the best source for calcium. In small amounts, dairy is fine, but there are good alternative sources. Other sources [1] [2]
This depends on the type of pill you are taking, but there are a few good rules to follow. You may also want to talk with your doctor when your medication is prescribed, in case something like this happens. These numbers are more of an estimate, combined from numbers taken from several sources. Note: this can vary from pill to pill, so it is best to call your doctor
Good question though a broad one! Well, it all depends on the 'pill' or 'medicine' you are on. Different medicines have different. And 'half-life' is the factor that mostly decides the 'dosage/timings'. But, if you go by general guidelines, all doctors agree upon one thing: The best practice is ask your healthcare provider about it. They can precisely tell you what should you do (though most of them would advise what I wrote).
Post-operative complications include the following: In general, LASIK results are better for patients with low myopia (between 1-6 D) and low astigmatism . Stability has been reported to be good with little or no change noted in most patients between 3 months and 1 year postoperative. Other factors that can affect results include the type of laser and microkeratome used and surgeon experience. But:
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome is compression of the median nerve. You have several muscles that go through a band (tunnel) which your median nerve uses as well. For whatever reason, if for overuse causing inflammation, structural damage, etc, the median nerve gets compressed you will start to feel tingling sensations. There are a few tests including Tinel's sign, Phalens test Overuse can lead to pain as well. The solution here is simple, stop using it. Let it rest. Do activities with the hand that aren't repetitive motions.
It takes energy (and blood) to digest the food. So when you eat shortly before exercising, you need the energy at two places (digestion and muscles) and the muscles win. This does not mean it is bad to eat before (or during) exercise. Some exercises (like running a marathon) requires you to replenish the energy (and the food) but you can't eat anything. You need to time your consumption. (Heavy foods take longer to digest so the time gap needs to be longer). I have most of this information from a book on sport injuries. But I have found a.
There are the following newer studies which are related to that one from: There are no specific newer studies which relates to recurrence for patients given drugs compares to those without drugs, however study from 1992 has some follow-up of 36 cases of patients from 1973-1989 who suffered WPW which could be some interest for you.
As I mentioned in, icing is not meant to heal tendinopathy. It is supposed to be a painkiller. It can have some effects that may feel like they are fixing the problem though. The cold ice forces blood vessels to contract which can help reduce the inflammation. This might be considered healing, but the tendinopathy is still there, until the tendon heals itself.
Paresthesia can be caused by inactivity, sustained pressure on the nerve, neurological disorder, or nerve damage. If the causes is from pressure, the user on Biology gave the following answer which I have quoted: If what you experience is chronic, you may need to see your healthcare provider in order to rule out a neurological disorder or nerve damage. You can find more information on paresthesia from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke as well as clinical trials if you are really concerned about this on their site:
Short anwser:, on a burn. This would worsen the burn. Putting butter, oil, or anything else would trap heat and make the burn deeper. It would also make further treatment harder and would: What to do instead: Once it happens, a burn is actually "cooking inside", and this for a while after the exposure, so the first thing to do is to stop this internal reaction using flowing water. According to (page 12-14), and sticking to thermal burns here (not chemical nor electrical), you should:
Right lower quadrant pain is typically appendiceal or ovarian. It can also be salpingitis - which does last longer, or PCOS, depending on the duration of the symptoms, or cystic Lymphangioma. Finally, it could be a stone at the junction of the ureter and bladder. Generally when a patient (or person) is asking about a symptom, they should be able to answer nine questions (O/S/Q/L/T/A/P/P/C): A normal ultrasound would not rule out all of these, but would be a good start.
It greatly depends on the wound: is it clean or infected? A cut on an abrasion? Acute or chronic. Associated with disease (diabetes), immobility (pressure) or other? Is it a burn? Honey is often overlooked. It is an antibacterial and a humectant, both helping wounds to heal better. Epidermal growth factor also helps but is not easy to get. Silver is preferred for burns (nanosilver is making an appearance). Collagen gels and other topicals are helpful. The body of literature is huge. I like an ointment with lanolin and allantoin, both of which promote healing.
According to the, a sudden hearing loss (Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss) is considered as a medical emergency as the treatment is more efficient if given as soon as possible: This appears in the section 1 of the linked document. This only answers your main question though, not the secondaries, as no further detail is given regarding why the treatment could be less efficient over the time. But the diagnosis and the treatment are both explained.
suggests that molybdenum sources in food are between 57% and 88% efficient in absorption rates nutritionally, and additionally lists milk content as 4.9 μg per cup, which is much lower than the suggestions elsewhere. This may be a good lower bound for calculation. However, remember that the, according to the European Food Safety Authority as of 2000. Alternatively, Diet.com listed it as 2 mg.
There is no complete cure for Limited (LS). Luckily, there are good ways that doctors can treat the symptoms of it and help prevent any complications. 1,2,3 [1] [2] [3]
As you grow older, your tendons become more rigid and brittle. This is probably because of decrease in the water content of tendons, which is one of the reasons why tendons are flexible. This decrease in water content makes your tendons stiffer and weaker. They also become less tolerable of stress. This causes you to be more prone to tendon injuries, which can then lead to tendinitis.
The best way to avoid added sugars is to look at the ingredients list for the following items. This list is not complete, but I've organized it into categories to make it easier to remember and draw conclusions about unnamed ingredients. Obviously, anything labeled "sugar", such as: Many things labeled as "syrup" Many things labeled as "juice" In chemistry, sugar names end in -ose And some ingredients that you might find in your own kitchen Miscellaneous other ingredients that can signal sugars:
How to stop or delay hair loss, it mainly depends on your cause and there many reasons of (alopecia) as this can be caused by oxidative stress, alopecia areata, an autoimmune disorder, fungal infection, traumatic damage, iron deficiency and many more and it can occur anywhere and at any age. In general nutrients and antioxidants in food play an key role in body defence mechanism including hair growth. Antioxidants help to neutralize certain free radicals which have the potential to damage human cells and genetic material. They basically halting the oxidation reaction. Antioxidants
I would also add that if you're consistently getting 4-5 hours of sleep (instead of about 8) then it's counterproductive for studying. Aside from affecting your ability to concentrate, there's also the effect on memory, especially memory consolidation for instance. As a grad student, I know that it's a constant challenge balancing sleep and studying, but I would still urge you to consider this. See a review here for example Rasch, Björn and Jan Born. Physiol Rev. 2013 Apr; 93: 681–766. doi: 10.1152/physrev.00032.2012
Two important questions: Basis for "normal" values should be understood. "Normal" values indicate confidence interval which includes 95% of healthy individuals. As so, any blood test with slightly elevated value may be normal, since all healthy individuals does not belong to the 95% confidence interval on which the "normal" values are based. As so you should not be automatically concerned if your blood level is above "normal". Of course this does not imply that fact that you should refer to your GP for more information and further investigation.
Tendons don't usually get replaced because there is tendon repair surgery instead. Getting your tendon (or any body part for that matter) replaced by an artificial tendon usually takes longer to recover than a tendon repair surgery, and also leaves you with some lifetime limitations, such as not be able to lift weight and you will not be able to compete in sports that involve the tendon that got replaced as actively. Tendon repair surgeries tend to take less time to recover from, and they also have a high success rate (if you do proper therapy).
There are lots of things you can do to be a responsible and considerate individual. Props for even asking this question! Side notes- If the hot water starts drying out your skin, use a moisturizer. Feel better soon!
A cold can be spread through: These things can help you to prevent it from spreading: Source: and at NHS See also:
In general hydrotherapy is advised and can improve mobility and help relieve discomford and promote recovery from injury. If you've neck or back problems, you may find that breaststroke aggravates your condition rather than improves it, but it could simply be down to poor technique. In study we can read: References:
Feeling cold can vary on our perception, age, race and hormonal concentrations. This has been shown in: Therefore based on the numbers we can say that sensitivity increases with aging and it is different in men and women. And this was not not associated with circulating hormonal concentrations. These studies were tested only on Japanese men and postmenopausal women aged 50 years, so if it's the evidence based on the numbers, it's up to you.
The discovery of penicillin by was accidental. In 1927 he had been investigating the properties of and when he returned to his laboratory after few weeks (which was often untidy), to his surprise one culture was contaminated with a fungus and the colonies of staphylococci immediately surrounding the fungus had been destroyed, whereas other staphylococci colonies farther away were normal. He identified the mould as being from the Penicillium genus and after some months of calling it "mould juice", named the substance it released on 7 March 1929. Fleming would later say: Source: See also:
Get to a doctor or dermatologist straight away A changing mole is an indicator of possible melanoma. Melanoma spreads very quickly, and mortality rates rise fast if it is left to grow. (UK NHS). A specialist will be able to do a diagnosis, and advise you on future checks. If they think it could be a melanoma, they will remove the mole and perform a biopsy.
The chilli pepper is usually referred to plants from the genus Capsicum and the substances that give chili peppers their intensity when ingested or applied topically are and several related (called as). Health benefits of eating chilli peppers can include: Nutritional value (per 1 pepper ~45g): Yellow and green chilies (which are essentially unripe fruit) contain lower amount of carotene and vitamin C substances.
It appears that melatonin decreases blood pressure in a way that occurs nocturnally in normal persons. Interestingly, it is being investigated as a possible anti-hypertensive in Type 2 diabetics. It doesn't seem to have any undesirable side effects, making it an ideal anti-hypertensive. It appears to have other effects on T2DM, but that is primarily on beta-cells, which should not affect someone with T1DM.
No, there isn't, not in any meaningful way. "The placebo effect" is an umbrella term, used primarily in the media/pop science. That isn't to say it isn't real or valid, but it covers outcomes from a great many different studies. In drug trials, the effects of a drug are often compared to a placebo - a sugar pill/saline injection - even placebo surgery. The placebo "effect" is what happens when you compare a placebo to nothing at all, and the patients on the placebo have statistically better outcomes. The key points here are:
According to (independant of any business, funded by the State Government of Victoria, Australia), passive smokers are exposed to many health risks that include long-term effects. To make it short: The full explanation (and list of risks depending on subjects) is available.
First, what is radiation? okay, so do mobile phone towers use this? So they do, but. Hmm, so they don't cause cancer. What other health issues? So not only is it not a huge amount (most goes over your head), the radiation is pretty safe.
The penetration is limited, therefore it's less risky than a steroid injection which carries a higher risk of tendon rupture. conclusion from 1999 by was:
This page on has an interesting section entitled "Myths About Your Eyes and Vision." The relevant portion: While the explanation is not as in-depth as the CDC article cited by @msouth, it appears to be a decent corroboration.
Smoking during pregnancy is related to many effects on health and it increases the risk in children as well. Even if the mother doesn't smoke, the risk increases significantly with higher amount of. These health risks include: Quitting smoking at any point during pregnancy is more beneficial than continuing to smoke, especially if it's within the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. Image credits: See also:
Alcohol is a psychoactive drug that acts as a central nervous system depressant. Drinking under-age increases alcohol risks in later life. Research shows the brain keeps developing well into the twenties, during which time it continues to establish important communication connections and further refines its function and studies show that young people who drink heavily may put themselves at risk for a range of potential health problems. Extreme alcohol consumption can cause memory loss, loss of coordination and, in some cases can be fatal. Health risks associated with drinking include: Source:
Wearing sunscreen while out in the sun cuts your risk of skin cancer. As others have pointed out, there are some potential risks associated with wearing sun screen. However, if you are out in the sun, these risks are far outweighed by the risk of UV exposure. has a very comprehensive overview of the facts, in particular citing a recent that assessed all studies related to sun screen to date. This was the conclusion:
There are some downsides to eating whole-grain rice, primarily that brown rice has. The EPA's maximum contaminant level for arsenic is, and there's that the level of arsenic contamination in brown rice could be pushing up against that threshold. As far as I'm aware though, there haven't been any definitive studies on health outcomes for people consuming brown vs. white rice.
If you look at the factors that cause an (such as bronchitis), you will find that When I read through the technique you were talking about, I found that there is no such risk factors in that technique. However, you should take the following precautions: Other than that, it is generally considered a safe practice to do breathing exercises, and are sometimes adviced to patients of bronchitis. If you follow these precautions, you should be fine.
tl;dr Current research seems to indicate that the brain is responding to anticipation or visual stimulus of needles being inserted, not that any of the theories supporting acupuncture are correct. Steven Novella: Chae Y, Lee IS, Jung WM, Park K, Park HJ, Wallraven C. Neurosci Lett. 2015 Feb 11;591C:48-52. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2015.02.025. I'm going to quote from Novella's review because it's easier for a lay person to read/understand, and I don't have full access to the paper. As background, he states: And described the current paper:
There is a study about the rate of absorption of caffeine through the skin and how hair follicles contribute to it ("significantly", is apparently the answer to that). Another study compared The first-referenced article above has this summary about what was known at the beginning of the study: Faith Williams, a researcher who studies skin's permeability to chemicals, had this to say about caffeinated soap in: Given that statement, you might experiment on yourself (after getting all the requisite sign-offs that you're complying with of course) by leaving the shampoo on your scalp for a longer time before rinsing.
Well, you eat a number of things - protein, carbohydrates, fats, water, alcohol (at times), etc. Digestion begins in the mouth.The stomach muscles contract periodically, churning food to enhance digestion, breaking it into tiny particles called "chyme", which can indeed be an emulsion. The stomach doesn't act as a beaker; it has input and shakes things up. The chyme is passed into the duodenum, where digestion takes place, and continues through the small intestines. Once the food reaches the large intestion, it is pretty much digested, and water reabsorption takes place.
If talking about the container itself and the chemicals it might leave on the product being consumed then these fears are mostly related to the fact that BPA (bisphenol A) is present in poly-carbonate bottles and on the adverse effects this has on the brains and development on reproductive organs of mice. However, when compared and related to humans, the effects don't seem to be that devastating to human health, see:
Consumption of large quantities of sugar has been shown to cause a state of addiction. shown that excessive intake of sugar can cause signs of opioid dependence, because this kind of food stimulates our neural systems. This was confirmed by another study from that suggest sugar releases opioids and dopamine, therefore it might be expected to have addictive potential. This has been proven in animal model, so it may translate to some human conditions as well causing eating disorders and obesity. See also:
Scientific research has been conducted on the absorption of nutrients provided by both food groups when combined. From a nutritional point of view, the absorption of both and could have the former prevent the absorption of the latter. and See:
The minimum infectious dose for a disease like typhoid is hard to obtain, because the most controlled method of obtaining this information is via human challenge studies, and those are essentially no longer performed due to some ethical issues. That means one must look at older data or observational studies, which have some methodological drawbacks. A suggests the necessary dose to provoke clinical disease was <10^3 organisms. characterizes the infectious dose for enteric fever (which is another name for typhoid fever) as ~ 10^5 organisms. In terms of which organs can be effected - in the most severe cases,.
There are a couple concerns with eating food with mold on it: The most common health threats from the mold itself are likely exposure to or allergic reactions - consider, for example, that penicillin is a mold that can grow on bread, and also causes fairly serious allergic reactions. While the risk is likely small (you are exposed to tremendous numbers of molds in the process of going about your life), it's also fairly avoidable.
Acupuncture is often used to treat pain conditions such as headache, lower back and osteoarthritis. It is based on scientific evidence that treatment can stimulate nerves under the skin and in muscle tissue and as result body is producing pain-relieving substances (such as endorphins). NICE recommends acupuncture only as a treatment option for chronic lower back pain, chronic tension-type headaches and migraines which are based on the scientific evidence. However more research is needed to established whatever acupuncture should be used for other pain remedies. Source: Read more about evidence at: and.
Reinfection with typhoid fever is certainly possible. An found that individuals with an induced infection were less likely to develop an infection if they had been previously infected, but 23% of them still developed a clinical fever. suggests that unless immunologically boosted, immunity to typhoid fever cannot last for more than ~ 1 year. Even immunity that arises from wanes and needs a booster after a few years. Reinfection, regardless of the success of your treatment or diet, is very possible.
There are long-term medications, those that will get asthma under control: Each kind has one or more available drugs, and each one can have different side effects, specially on the long term. (Sources:,,)
Possible Risks suggests that Oligonol is safe for consumption and does not pose any proven threats or harmful consequences to health . Possible Benefits: Other studies suggest that its benefits may include reducing: visceral fat , the risk of mental degenerative diseases such as dementia and Alzheimer's , stress-induced inflammation , and excessive sweating . There's also possible correlation with strengthening the immune system . Disclaimers (Thanks JohnP!). (See more: Links 3 and 4) Sources:
Food poisoning is something of a catch-all term for any one of a number of infections caused by microbial contamination of food - it should be noted that it is not necessarily just bacterial contaminants. For example, Norovirus is actually the most common food-borne pathogen. As for why not just calling it an infection, there are two reasons: Although food poisoning may be caused by an infection, it's mainly a syndromic description of a disease.
Adult pads have a larger area. And they provide more energy. The higher energy is needed because most adults have more body mass than children. Lower energy is more suitable for children. I teach CPR according to the European standards (ERC). You can use an AED with adult pads on a child, but you should put one pad on the front and the other on the back (both sides of the heart). So they can't touch.
According to the USDA, has a higher concentration of Omega-3 fatty acids than at 4.2g vs 3.4g for the default 1/2 fillet tested. describes an assay to measure astaxanthin content, which is one of the dyes added to the feed of farmed salmon.
I put a lot of trust in the for just about any question they answer. @michaelpri cited their answer to this question, and I think it is worth posting as a separate answer:
Unfortunately the answer to your question is we simply do not know. There have been no trials of antihistamines or corticosteroids for ACEI associated angioedema and these treatments are of unproven efficacy and may be ineffective, despite often be used as standard therapy.
Some of symptoms of colorectal cancer can include: But most importantly, in the absence of symptoms, people over age 50 should be screened regularly (every 1 to 2 years) for bowel cancer, or precancerous polyps, with a simple faecal occult blood test (FOBT) followed by colonoscopy if the result is positive. Screening can detect precancerous polyps early, which can then be removed before bowel cancer even begins to develop, and thus many countries now have a screening program for their citizens.: A Joint Guideline from the American Cancer Society, the US Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer, and the American College of Radiology
It is likely you are not hearing the ultrasound itself (typical frequencies are, far beyond what the human hearing system is capable of detecting). You are probably hearing from the electronics -- in particular tend to operate towards the upper end of the hearing range, and the intensity of this sound changes as the power consumption does (eg. when the imaging system goes from "idle" to "active").
From here: From here: These are not necessarily the original sources of those classifications - neither one is cited, so it's not even necessarily possible to follow that definition backwards along a citation path, but those are both official WHO documents.
Many of the active ingredients in flea and tick powders are harmful to humans, or suspected of being carcinogenic, or have effects on the nervous system. The has a page on OTC flea and tick products, one of the sections details a couple of these effects: Additionally, one of the current varieties of powder has the following warning on it's website for the product: So there are a host of possible side effects, from possible nerve damage up through it being a possible carcinogen. I would not advise using them on yourself.
Disclaimer: Some of the sources in this post should likely be considered "Not Safe for Work". Glycerine-based lubricants, which are likely the most common form of water-based lubricants on the market (consider, for example, or) have a number of positive properties to them (when compared to silicon or oil-based lubricants): There are also a number of drawbacks, compared to alternatives:
Nature ran an article last month, focusing in the explosive increases in cases of myopia in many countries (with some Asian countries going from ~20% in 1940 to ~80% in 2010). The precise cause is not determined with certainty, but there is a very good correlation between developing myopia and spending time indoors: The proposed mechanism for this is the lack of light: But this is the subject of on-going research, and not everyone agrees. Other factors may also play a part:
My experience has been that when I, or someone in my family, gets chilled, this seems to increase the chance of coming down with a cold. I tried searching on google for this, and found, which says: is the abstract of the study they were talking about.
Looking at this from the perspective of an infectious disease epidemiologist, the kind of person who often reads (and occasionally runs) studies of this type, I'm skeptical. A number of reasons why: I can't find the specific language about the 92% claim you cite in your question, but my assessment of the overall evidence that this compound works would be "Faint and preliminary, at best".
When the body is exposed to hot temperatures, the normal response of the body is dilation of the peripheral blood vessels so that the heat energy in the blood can be released into the external environment, increasing the rate at which the body cools down. This dilatation also leads to decreased peripheral vascular resistance (blood pooling in the extremities, for instance), and thus a decrease in blood pressure. Thus if one already suffers from low blood pressure, exposure to hot environments may temporarily exacerbate the problem.
Yes, rabies is most definitely contagious. The most common route of infection is from the, which introduces virus-laden saliva to the victim. It's also possible, though much less likely, to be exposed to infective saliva in the eyes, nose and mouth. The CDC claims that a person-to-person transmission of the virus via bite is theoretically possible, but has not been documented: There has however been person-to-person transmission of the virus through, also documented. In terms of avoiding spreading the disease, the routes of transmission suggest several clear methods:
As with many viral diseases, the symptoms begin, including weakness and discomfort, general malaise, fever and headache. The acute period for rabies generally lasts from 2 to 10 days, and may involve itching or prickling at the site of the bite (notwithstanding the symptoms of having been bitten) and then progress to a number of serious neurological symptoms, including anxiety, confusion, agitation, delirium, hallucinations and insomnia. It should be noted that once these clinical signs appear,.
It very much depends on what you mean by evidence, but if you're talking about major studies that produced meaningful results that actually captured people's attention, 's, followed by a fair amount of more intensive research in the late 1950's and early 1960's. It's a somewhat technical paper, but describes both some of the early results, the medical research community's reactions to them, and the broader impacts on medical research as a field.
You can also use, it is a software that adjusts automatically and according to your location the brightness and contrast of your monitor. It lowers UV light during day, and lowers IR light during night.
No. To simplify somewhat, ECT is associated with: ECT is often associated with: ECT is sometimes associated with: You can't count on ECT for any memory loss, since the norm is to remember everything within a few months at most. Also, as mentioned in comments, there is no way to know which memories will be affected. You might remember every painful detail of the past year, and forget some of the more pleasant ones.
I found a study which show that teeth whitening using Hydrogen Peroxide can cause oral mucosa irritation, burns or sensitive teeth. However, these were found to be mild in nature and resolved spontaneously without any intervention. Since teeth whitening strips are hydrogen peroxide based, I think the results can be safely extrapolated. References:
Modern evidence-based medicine won't be able to fully answer your question, but there are indications that. E.g., in obstipated patients,, which still can't tell what is cause and what is effect. is also an emerging therapy for various diseases (see also and), so while there is no better explanation for your question, I think the difference in composition of gut flora may be a good candidate to explain individual variation.
According to this and, brain cancer was first discovered in 1873 and brain tumor before that. We can't say for sure when the first case of brain tumor occurred because it may have been originated in the prehistoric times. Since no data was recorded in those times, it isn't certain to say when and where the first case of brain tumor occurred.
The primary risk is what is called Computer Vision Syndrome . The American Optometric Association (referenced above) recommends the following changes in viewing habits to alleviate symptoms: Also, from WebMD: Gunnar glasses: Studies have shown but generally no evidence has yet surfaced to support benefits of these glasses for long term health.
Rock salt is no different from sea salt or table salt, chemically speaking, as all of them consist of nearly-pure sodium chloride (NaCl) The UK Consensus Action on Salt and Health organisation has that showed that NaCl content of various types of standard and "gourmet" salts were not significantly different. It also detailed a few misconceptions about "gourmet" salts:
If they both contain the exact same substance, then powder form may be easier to measure more precisely. However, I cannot find any studies indicating any significant difference between capsule and powder form. Additionally, I would like to give you containing an interview with Dr. Stefano Guandalini, MD, Section Chief of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and Medical Director of the Celiac Disease Center at the University of Chicago. He gives a short list of probiotics which "have been validated through clinical trials and published in peer-reviewed journals to show efficacy". For the rest, he states,
This is most likely referring to the fact that canned fish is often packed in vegetable oils, which add fat content while not providing the omega-3 content of fish oil.
From the national Cancer institute (updated 2011) "There is no universal marker for tumors". Note that marker in that context refers to samples from any source, including blood. To answer the converse, not all tumors need have unique markers. E.g. AFP is linked to several types of cancer.
To complete the answer of kenorb, I would like to add the second part Soaping According to the, the number one tip to prevent dry skin is:, The New York Times explains further: There is a note: However If you are about to think that not shower/bath because it's make your skin dry, there are other reasons to reconsider. According to, there is 7 reasons to take a cool shower:
I am not sure about the leaf you are asking about. But in India we use since centuries to soothe toothache. It is a flower bud and very effective against toothaches.
For a one off experiment, a search of suggests that while uncomfortable, testing a dog shock collar on yourself is not particularly risky. That said, if you wish to avoid the discomfort, existing videos might get the point across.
There are complications involved with TB itself and with the treatment. The TB itself is likely to resolve (assuming it isn't resistant which it should have been tested for). Thus no complications caused by TB should occur which would be damage to structures in the neck or elsewhere affected by TB and disease if TB had spread across the body. The treatment has a number of side effects. These include If any of these occur, she should see a doctor. And honestly, she should discuss which complications she might face with a doctor.
Your doctor wants to know what the stones are made of (e.g. Calcium oxalate, etc.) Being in the container will not be alter that, nor will drying out. Just put all the stones you find in the container, and follow the advice you were given about fluids, foods, etc. Drop the stones off whenever it's convenient - a week or two is fine. The sooner they are analyzed, however, the sooner your doctor can give you tailored advice on measures you can take that will decrease the likelihood of more stones forming.
TL;DR: using expired condom might lead to irritation on the skin of the sex organs involved in the act, and might also lead to skin inflammation and rash. After some self research, I found which while not scientific and official, is written by someone who appears to know what they're talking about. Quoting the relevant part: (part about pregnancy isn't relevant to my case since the question is purely about health)
Apparently the body does remove mercury naturally: -- Sandborgh-Englund G1, Elinder CG, Langworth S, Schütz A, Ekstrand J. - - J Dent Res. 1998 Apr;77:615-24.
I think there's a link, but no one can say that this is the cause of myopia According to: Also: give us more input about your specifics questions: That being said, since most of studies link this cause of effect on developing eye's, i don't think this could make your myopia worse after you is past 21 years old and your eye's is completely grown.
The HPV vaccine is most effective when preventing you from initial infection. While common, it's possible you haven't been infected with HPV. Even if you are, there is some benefit to still being vaccinated if you're HPV positive. The reason for this is that there are a number of different types of HPV virus, and the vaccine should provide you some protection against types you have not already acquired. From, "Human Papillomavirus Vaccination: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices": and In short: It is likely still worth getting vaccinated to protect you from other strains of HPV.
There are several types of HSV tests, with varying benefits and drawbacks. To address your questions regarding the antibody test: It should be noted that
You are correct to be worried about the effect of sleep on your physical health, especially because you seem to have bad luck (or bad genes) when it comes to serious infectious disease. Anyway, back to the issue of sleep as it relates to infectious disease: So it's safe to presume that your lack of sleep is impairing your health. No one can guarantee that good sleep will restore you to good health, but it can't hurt.
I don't belive it is possible for the body to produce too much ADH. The body will likely produce insufficient ADH to eliminate the ingested water, thus you will still remain in a state of hyponatremia even after the body's ADH response. The body will then return to homeostatus by reducing thirst. This means of course that if you ingest too much water (ignoring your lack of thirst) you can create serious health problems for yourself.
The Maisonneuve fracture is a special form of the Weber C fracture. What makes it special is that the fracture of the fibula has to be localized within the proximal third of the fibula shaft (see "The Maisonneuve fracture is a spiral fracture of the proximal third of the fibula", ). Weber C includes all localizations of the fracture of the fibula.
After some more google-research, I found this paper, published a couple of years after I received my BCG vaccination: The paper describes "multipuncture" as a method of delivering BCG as an alternative to the intradermal method, so apparently my memory was correct.
This so-called sixth sense is called kinesthesia or proprioception. There are some slight differences between the two, in that kinesthesia only refers to moving parts, whereas your proprioceptive sense can identify the position of your body even when still. kin·es·the·sia awareness of the position and movement of the parts of the body by means of sensory organs (proprioceptors) in the muscles and joints. pro·pri·o·cep·tion the sense of the relative position of neighbouring parts of the body and strength of effort being employed in movement.
I'd suggest seeing a doctor. They'd be able to get to the crux of the matter, and it could be indicative of something more serious. Especially considering bloating can be caused by so many things and you've tried most of the basics Did you google it? There's tons of articles on bloating along with suggestions and remedies. Based on your question it seems like you have, so I'm assuming you've tried (splenda, aspartame, etc), carbonated drinks, and sugars,, etc. And again, I'd suggest seeing a doctor. Expecially since you seem to have tried all the more simple remedies. Medical disclaimer:
Artificial sweeteners are used in toothpastes. Mostly Xylitol or Sacharin. They don´t promote tooth decay. The sweetness in toothpaste are added in order to make more people brush their teeth on a daily basis.
Calculating from the numbers Wikipedia's articles on and, the bone marrow in an adult human produces between 200 billion and 500 billion red blood cells a day, taking between 60 and 120 days to produce enough to replace the 20-30 trillion red blood cells in circulation. Under normal conditions, red blood cells wear out and are replaced on a 120-day cycle; presumably the faster production rate is for dealing with injuries or other abnormal loss of RBCs.
Dry cough is most often non-inflammatory. If you had a flu or influenza prior to the beginning of the symptoms, then you might suffer from something post-viral. It is usually self-limiting. The fact that cold air provokes your symptoms might be indicative of. As such, you may need to see a pulmonary specialist. Certainly he/she run some basic tests like a chest x-ray for a starter. Spirometry is also the routine test to be performed.
It seems that SAStid contains salicylic acid. Salicylic acid a keratolytic: it helps to peel the outer layers of the thick skin. As so it is helpful in the treatment of warts and psoriasis. With eczema there is no skin thickening or dandruff. So I see no real benefits with that soap. It is obvious that when the outermost layer of your skin is peeled off it increases the loss of humidity from skin resulting to dryness. Since the most common problem with eczema is the dryness of the skin it only makes it worse.
I'm sorry to hear about your recent psychosis. The mood/psychological effects of glucocorticosteroids are well documented. Throughout the reading, you'll note that many of these symptoms are;however, the truth is that your healthcare providers (psychiatrist and hematologist) are better equipped to determine both the cause and treatment. If you're looking for others with personal experience, you might seek out another forum.
Mercury is stacking up. But the amount of mercury in fish differs not only by fish type, but also by fishing region. In most regions and with 'typical' amount of fish eaten, people do not eat enough fish to get dangerous mercury levels.
First of all, there is a Secondly, working on long term activation may hurt (as in pain) your back. If you find that a certain posture is good for you try to sets of time in which you are in that posture. Remmember: your best posture is your next posture.
The only term that I can think of is dysautonomia, or autonomic neuropathy. This is a blanket term used to describe failure in portions or all of various autonomic functions, such as digestion, sweating, reaction to posture changes, things like this. There is a webpage, that has more information if you would like to research it further.
I have experienced allergies to many medications, including antibiotics, and one of the treatments (aside from abstention) has been to simultaneously take an antihistamine such as Benadryl to force the immune system not to respond to the preconceived threat. The best way to deal with this, however, is to ask your doctor how to proceed. An infection can get worse with less treatment, the same as none.
I think I can answer this question as I'm in similar situation. You can definitely gain weight by following these steps: sources:
The doesn't make such strong claims. And that only based on a few theoretical assumptions. You can e.g. also assume that for cancer to develop you need the immune system to miss some problems which may be far less likely to happen when you introduce a very small effect. There is then an effective threshold that must be overcome. In such a scenario, the marginal increase wouldn't exist at all.
I found these water injectors on Amazon which squirt a thin stream of water for several dozen seconds and have a curved tip that can reach back into the crevices of tonsils. I was able to remove several of the tonsilliths. The tips are slightly rough but I suppose they can be cut or filed. Shining a flashlight with the other hand lets you see what you are doing. I had hoped for a vacuum solution but this seems to work for less money. Just take a deep breath and hold your breath while doing it.
Restless Legs Syndrome (a.k.a. Willis-Ekbom Disease) is not rare! What it is is woefully under-diagnosed. Not that you asked, but, although estimates of prevalence vary widely depending on the criteria used, have clinically significant RLS/WED, with women affected about twice as often as men. Now to what you did ask: treatment of RLS/WED. In most situations, there is no curative treatment. However, there are excellent (mostly pharmacologic) treatments available to suppress symptoms. A few words about the various treatments by class: Please see and for further information.
Yes, palpitations is the correct term. Another term for it is, which includes the sensation of skipped or irregular beats and occasional forceful beats. If the beats are a regular rhythm but consistent and forceful, they're more likely due to and generally wouldn't be called palpitations (though calling them that wouldn't be wrong per se). Another interesting cause is what's known as, but that's a very different pattern and doesn't seem to be what you're describing.
Not only are they moldy, it looks like they've also been damaged by moisture. See how the surface is rippled in spots? That's what water does to pills. No, the medicine is not safe to use despite being within the expiration date (see same link above). Although they might not hurt you ("might" being the key word), they are quite likely ineffective.
A list of foods rich in vitamin B3 (niacin) is available. Although meats are the richest source, those are often not soft to chew. However, if you look at that table you'll see that it shouldn't be difficult to consume the RDA even on a vegetarian diet.
Bones should be maximally immobilized. It is very painful and dangerous to move otherwise. It is possible to walk, using only one crutch (I know this by practice). Probably it is possible to use it on the side opposite to broken collar bone. Most probably, if we have complex fracture, it will be recommended to use carriage, especially on initial stages of recovery.
I should look at the actions of American Psychiatric Assocation (APA) . And indeed, Medicine has a dark history when homosexuality was regarded as mental illness. In the in the year 1949 homosexuality was classified under "psychopathy". in 1968 was to consider pedophilia as a subtype of homosexuality. Another in 1971 considered LSD as a "treatment" for homosexuality. So, yes, things were slightly different back in the days.
The liver breaks down about 90% of alcohol consumed, excreted in the urine. To become combustible, the ethanol concentration in urine would have to approach at room temperature, though 20% would combust at around body temperature. However, conversion of ethanol into acetate by the liver generates one molecule of water for each molecule of ethanol consumed. Since 18 times more alcohol is metabolized by the liver than is excreted in the urine, the water from all that liver metabolism would render the urine too dilute to combust even if it were not supplied by the diet.
This could be linked to your diet, but Vitamin D is not found in many foods (with the exception of fish and fortified foods). However, there have been some reports that laboratories may be producing an incorrect value. "This means that compared with the actual concentration of 25 (OH)D in a sample of blood serum, a falsely low or falsely high value may be obtained depending on the assay or laboratory used." Follow this link on a list of foods high in Vitamin D and some other facts:
For Yoga, do 54 sets = 108 reps of Surya Namaskar. Of course you need to. My great-grandfather did 2 hours of yoga in morning, and lived to nearly 100 years. Also ate nuts, fruits, teas, water. This is according to my dad. Not, just things about family members that get passed down from generation to generation:-)
There are many reasons why fried food can be harmful. The chief reason is related to the oil content in these foodstuffs.
Steve Pavlina did an experiment on himself for testing the Polyphasic Sleep. On his blog there is a lot of information about the experiment. However, what is written on his blog is not scientific proof, but from his own perspective. As he wrote on his blog:
In general, the answer seems to be no, it does not contain a meaningful quantity. Refer first to in Seasoned Advice. Although not peer reviewed, appears to be a credible source and it's the only documented direct test for mercury in sea salts that I've seen. Refer to Table 3 (Hg is mercury).
The FluMist vaccine contains : So yes, there is at least one flu vaccine, the spray-based live-attenuated vaccine, that does not contain the adjuvant in question.
I checked literature on this and found that following general measures are helpful to prevent acute mountain sickness, high altitude cerebral edema (HACE) and high altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE): Following medicines have been shown to reduce the risk and are generally recommended for persons who are susceptible (e.g. those who suffered such episodes on their previous visits to high altitudes): Above medicines should be started one day prior and continued for 2-3 days after reaching high altitude. If acute mountain illness does occur, following measures are useful to treat these conditions: Some References:
You can contact the FDA from their website,. Since you're a patient with a disease, I would use the FDA Patient Network Program. Office of Health and Constituent Affairs: 301-796-8460; email: PatientNetwork@fda.hhs.gov Please note that your doctor does not need FDA approval to use a drug in an off-label manner.
The mean pressure has to be lower peripherally for blood to flow in that direction. However, it is well known that there is an amplification of systolic blood pressure in the limbs due to reflection of pressure wave from periphery (see). Vascular stiffness also affects this phenomenon. See figure 4 of this article in American Journal of Physiology: The phenomenon of pressure wave reflection is shown clearly in figure 5 of this article in Advances in Physiology Education This phenomenon is also exaggerated in aortic regurgitation, where it is called the Hill's sign:
According to my eye doctor, this much distortion is not normal. He checked the strength of my glasses and they were not made according to the prescription: the OS astigmatism correction was -0.50 rather than the written -0.25. Getting the glasses remade now.
Each state should have their own licensing board, that may or may not have a search function to verify a licensure. As an experiment, I went to the and entered the name of a nurse practitioner that I gathered off of the internet, and it came back with a verification of their initial licensure, how long it was good for, and the recognized level of accreditation. Your own state should have a way to verify all licensed medical practitioners in the state.
No, there is no evidence in reputable sources that any diet can restore a partially removed tooth to a full tooth again. Any source you do encounter which proposes such a possibility is highly likely to benefit from such a claim (i.e. there exists a conflict of interest between the claim and the truth.) There is, however, a large body of sound research on the repair of carious teeth via fillings, root canals, etc.
There is no single view of traditional medicine within a large community. There are some who investigate, some who incorporate traditional medicine into their practices, and some who eschew it. Most simply don't know about it.
It sounds like you know that some lifestyle modifications have been shown to be beneficial with patients who have mild to moderate GERD and that these interventions are typically preferable to pharmacological intervention. Right on! The definitive information on management of GERD can be found on. Here is the specific section that you're looking for: In my personal experience, all three of these are worth trying.
I checked myself and found following agents are useful: As patient stabilizes, agents known to be useful in long term treatment of chronic heart failure are added: These agents have been shown to provide survival benefit in long term to patients with heart failure. References: ACCF/AHA practice guidelines: ESC guidelines: NICE guidelines:
People who sleep less than 6 hours and people who sleep more than 9 hours have been found to have a greater risk of suffering from adverse health effects,. But one cannot conclude from such observed correlations that changing sleeping behavior will help, this requires one to analyze the cause of these correlations. The way long sleep is associated with increased mortality is not well understood, as mentioned in:
It can be trusted as safe as much as the regulations that it comes under can be trusted to make it safe and producers following said regulations.
It seems to be that the health danger of frying past a smoking point is absorbing cancer-causing chemicals from the fumes the oil produces or from ingesting the oil itself. Source: Source: Source: As side notes, Source:
I checked and found following coagulation problems may occur in patients with congenital cyanotic heart diseases (commonest example tetralogy of Fallot): Thrombotic episodes may occur due to: Bleeding episodes can occur due to: Hence patients with congenital cyanotic heart disease are at risk of both bleeding (from example from lungs- hemoptysis) and thrombosis (e.g. in brain vessels- stroke). Both above problems are more common in patients with severe hypoxia and cyanosis. Above abnormalities can be treated using following modalities: However, unwarranted iron supplementation or vitamin K replacement may lead to thrombotic episodes. References:
To increase weight and be healthy eat plenty of food rich in proteins (black beans, chickpeas, broccoli, potatoes, mushrooms), carbohydrates (Whole grain bread, pasta, cereals) and fat (avocado, olive oil, almonds, walnuts); include supplements and multivitamins in your diet, lift weights (don't do running or cardio) and plan your diet according to your activity level.
Unless you are very short, your weight indicates that you are severely underweight,. If you are indeed underweight, then you should follow the advice given there: The general advice that comes second to whatever your doctor's advice is, is given on. So, you'll need to increase your calorie intake, but make sure you get enough nutrients from all food groups.
Yes, high blood sugar levels can cause damage in the body---but it is SUSTAINED high blood sugar levels that are dangerous. Here is another interesting article on A1c and athletes: Athletes may have short bursts of higher glucose in their blood stream after exercise and not prolonged high levels. I, too, am an endurance athlete (ultra-marathon runner) who tends to have borderline high A1c results. My last results was 5.7.
As shown in, the results of surgery are no better than the results of sham surgery. Such studies had been done previously with the same result, but these earlier studies included typical patients, a significant fraction of such patients suffer from degenerative disease like osteoarthritis. Then if surgery is found to not work, you don't know if that's due to the nature of the disease process or if surgery wouldn't even work under ideal circumstances. That's why this study was done and the results were negative:
Apparently omega-3 supplements do contain PCB. But I don't know what kind of container the supplement comes in (if it comes in capsules or not)
I found a lead that may provide you with a practitioner in California that offers the treatment you are looking for.
I had a same situation due to allergic reaction. Hives and mouth ulcers. I mixed 50/50 Mylanta and Childrens Benedryl and swished. The Mylanta coated the mouth which allowed me to eat without the pain and burning, The Childrens Benedryl helped with the ulcers and hives. It's also okay to swallow. You didn't mention the cause or the remedies you have tried. This is one that helped me. Good Luck.
Today's issue of New England Journal of Medicine (15th October, 2015) discusses the pros and cons of having annual screening: Hence, there are 2 approaches: Other tests to be considered:
It has already been tested,. The best thing to do is to accept that EMF interference does not cause health problems other than via the.
The also does not mention the cavity being filled during surgery. The hemisphere that is left does not move towards the center, as can be seen in MRI scans, for example in this paper:
Yes, blood viscosity changes with altitude. This is a study in rats where the control group was kept at normal altitude and the test group at simulated 5500 meters. The effects you are describing is called "high altitude deterioration" (HADT) and in patients with this, blood viscosity is one of the symptoms. This study was only in old women, but nevertheless I will include it here: Most relevant to your question, this was a small study on mountaineers to Mount Everest: Making the connection to vascular problems:
One of those prescriptions is written in plus cylinder form, the other in minus cylinder form. Going from the first to the second:
Munchausen by proxy has been diagnosed for caregiver/care receiver relationships that were not parent / child. is an article reviewing 13 cases found in the medical literature where the care receiver in the relationship was an adult. Not all of the perpetrators were parents. From The majority of cases seem to be underage children and parents (usually mothers), though.
Patients with following features on angiogram have better results with coronary bypass surgery (CABG) than after angioplasty (percutaneous coronary intervetion, including balloon dilatation, stenting etc): These features indicate that angioplasty may be associated with greater likelihood of suboptimal immediate result and/or greater risk of complications later on (such as restenosis or the dreaded subacute thrombosis in the treated artery). Hence, bypass surgery is generally advisable in these cases. References:
Sperm does not naturally exist in pre-cum since sperm is released at the point of ejaculation. However, both the articles you site are correct in that preexisting sperm already in the urethra could travel out with the pre-cum. A quote from Teen Clinic on also mentions this same thing. One hygiene tip I've heard to help with this is for the man to urinate after sex to help clean out the urethra of both sperm and as a preventative measure against STDs. Core Physicians also mentions that
I had never heard about what your cousin refers to. Most studies about the impact of deodorants that I have ever found were regarding its effect on patients undergoing radiation therapy for breast cancer. Even then, there does not seem to exist any evidence that deodorant increases the risk of breast cancer, as seen: This matter is also approached in a: Even at they say: Overall, it seems safe to use deodorants. At least I haven't find any evidence otherwise.
Yes. There are a number of diseases that can be transmitted by rodents, and several of them can be quite serious. This is the list of diseases that can be directly transmitted by rodents according to the: This is not to say that any given rat or mouse might transmit any of these. Other factors come into play, such as which diseases are endemic to the area and which diseases infect which species. On the link above you can expand each disease to see which rodents can transmit it. Unfortunately, rats and mice are included in most of those diseases.
It's not the species of animal that matters; it's how the meat was prepared. According to the, WHO defines processed meats as: And according to, pastrami is: So yes, the WHO would say turkey and chicken pastrami are carcinogenic.
Official source of information More links It took me a while to wrap my head around all these quirks - I'm so detached from the nature:)
As [1], it is the price we've paid for our ability to speak: Many people who don't have obstructive sleep apnea, will snore as a result of these evolutionary adaptations. You can let your doctor examine your throat, if you feel drowsy during the day you can do a sleep test to see of you suffer from sleep apnea. But snoring in itself doesn't necessarily have to be due to a pathological problem that needs to be treated. [1] T. M. Davidson, The Great Leap Forward: the anatomic basis for the acquisition of speech and obstructive sleep apnea, Sleep Medicine 4 , 185–194.
After some research, I believe I can answer my own question, even though it is a somewhat dissatisfying one. There is no indication that progesterone supplementation helps prevent sporadic miscarriages (women have not had three or more pregnancy losses before). There is currently a large study underway to test this effect, however, no results have been published yet. edited a month later The results of that large trial were published at the end of November 2015. From the study: Sources and further reading: (meta analysis of studies showing no impact on sporadic miscarriages, but effect for recurrent miscarriages)
Roughly speaking, it appears that about 30-40% of patients in stage IV will survive for 5 years or more depending on where the cancer originated. provides details.
There are several such calculators where you can input the hours you spend sleeping / sitting / standing etc. One example is. Please note that even this will not give you a 100 percent accurate number.
There is a potential problem, as This means that you need to check this out with your doctor. Your doctor can then look into this, considering your medical status and all the medicines you take to determine if there is a problem with using olive leaf extract in your particular case.
First, I should say that I think this question should be closed. It's clearly a request for personal medical advice, but apparently no one else shares that view, so I'll go ahead and answer. Then taking a supplement known to lower blood pressure would seem like a bad idea. compared the effects of olive leaf extract on BP to an ACE inhibitor: So olive leaf extract seems to be pretty effective stuff, almost as effective as an ACE inhibitor. Therefore, taking it without first involving the medical professionals you've been seeing up until now probably isn't a good idea.
Humans have been spending hours per day immersed in sea water without harm since before recorded history. Many sportsmen, professional divers, and fishermen still do. Other than the mild drying effects salt water has on the skin, I can find no documentation of harm from exposure to it. What else might be in the water can only be revealed by laboratory testing. If you want to be sure the water is free of harmful contaminants, you'll need to have it tested. Never a bad idea with well water.
The only consequence is that meat from older animals is generally tougher. To compensate, cooks usually use meat from older animals in soups, stews and other dishes that require long, slow cooking in liquid (braising). Braising breaks down connective tissue and tenderizes the meat. For example, older chickens are often referred to as stewing hens while younger birds are referred to as fryers, reflecting their best uses.
Yes, or at least waterproof enough to bath and swim while wearing it. According to the: And: And according to the review. If the patch detaches, it needs to be replaced, but water immersion such as bathing and swimming does not appear to significantly increase the risk of it happening. Water immersion also
The hepatitis B virus has been found in semen, salivia, and vaginal secretions (as well as in blood, of course). The risk of transmission is lower for oral sex than it is for vaginal or anal sex, but it is not zero. For oral sex with an infected man on the receiving end, a condom is recommended. As for giving oral sex, a dental dam can be used. To reduce the risk even more,. Sources
Here are some good sources of protein: Do you eat dairy? If you do, try: Note that these numbers are approximate (depending on the brand, etc.). There are many other sources of protein, but I hope this provides you with a starting point. Here is some more data:
Dettol upon contact with turns milky like white. When H2O is added to the dettol liquid its oil droplets become suspended in the water droplets, creating something called an Emulsion. It is that state of emulsion that causes the colour to change with its response to light.
In short, because mutations are not defined as specific. A mutation of any bacteria could be mutation that could be weak or strong. Weak & Strong would be quantified by our technology, treatments and comprehension of the bacteria. There are two factors important to understanding the change of the bacteria. Bacteria can acquire large pieces of DNA from other bacteria, viruses and the environment. Check out for more information.
Is wart (you need to see doctor). This can be most urgent. The treatment is burned with nitrogen. Source: Be careful: You can pass on the infection to you friend/familly. Please, treat it quickly.
Like all things too much of anything is bad for you. As a designer working in the tech industry for over a decade, here's a few things I experienced and that might (I hope not) impact you. Sources:
Thanks to for clarifications. For deep cuts, sutures bind the subcutaneous tissue to allow it to heal properly. Since muscle lies beneath the subcutaneous tissue, it seems that sutures do NOT include muscle for lacerations. However, if you want to generalize to any suture, then the first two articles below demonstrate instances where muscle might be sutured. The two links are tests of comparison between different types of methods and techniques in suturing on muscle. specific muscle case: General suturing info:
In addition to the extreme cold of dry ice when it warms and becomes a gas again it gains volume rapidly. If it is in your stomach you will inflate to fatal levels. There are many cases where this has happened. If you are drinking a beverage with dry ice in it make sure it has all evaporated (melted). It is used because of the 'cool' steam it gives of as it heats. Supporting sources Similar thread The volume increase with sublimation is the same as liquid nitrogen:
comes in three forms, one of which is called "Schwannomatosis". It usually develops in the patient's 20s or 30s and is characterized by people developing schwannomas. The most common symptom is pain. A study I could find: recommends However, for perspective: So it's not likely. Just one condition that presents with a predisposition for schwannomas.
To the best of our knowledge, it just happens to some people and it's harmless. Unless there are additional symptoms, like itching or redness of the eye, there is no cause for concern. Some things can make it worse, like hot weather, and some things can make it look worse on some people, like people with very light skin. The medical expression is "mild periorbital swelling", by the way. Searching for it in medical databases will mostly lead to getting information on the rare cases where it was a symptom of a serious illness, though. Sources:
I could find one letter to the editor from 2011 that posits a few mechanisms by which increased blood flow caused by the fever might make autism symptoms better:. It also mentions a workshop on the topic that happened in 2010. Here is the. There is a with some more thoughts related to causes. I could find nothing newer, but this year, a grant of 900,000 USD grant was awarded to Indiana University to research that link:
For mild cases, no treatment is needed. For more severe cases, ACE inhibitors and diuretics are used as medical treatments. The surgical options are aortic valve repair (valvuloplasty) or replacement with a mechanical or tissue valve. Replacement carries high risks (1 in 50 patients dies) as it is open heart surgery and also a risk the risk of blood clots and thus needs to be carefully considered, and patients need to take anti-blood clot medication afterwards. Sources: (different name for aortic insufficiency)
Risks appear to be low, if they are used as intended. However, all studies on this I found had a really small sample size. So rare risks could just not have appeared.
I don't know if anyone can give a definite answer as to why these folks so badly wanted you to donate platelets over whole blood, but there are many possible reasons. 1 One donation can give about 6-8 -"units". See the for more information.
There doesn't seem to be any evidence of harmful effects of canola oil. The states: There seems to be, on the contrary, evidence for. However, I haven't been able to find any article on canola oil in omega supplementation specifically (especially vs. other plant oils or vs. fish oils). There is a lot of literature about consumption of these oils in general but relatively few about fatty acid supplementation by pills in particular. Edit to take count of the article you cited: Sources:
There's a number of medical reasons to take the pill other than preventing pregnancy: Edited because I did in fact understood birth control pills and not prenatal supplementation. As a vitamin supplementation, it could in theory be used by people who lack certain nutrients, namely folic acid and iron (iron deficiency in particular is common in people who are menstruating). However, the Mayo Clinic doesn't recommend it:
In general, no. A is one where carbohydrates are eliminated and protein is restricted, to force the body to obtain its energy from the metabolism of fatty acids and ketone bodies, rather than the normal method of glucose metabolism. It is used primarily to treat otherwise-intractible epilepsy, and to a lesser extent, to deal with certain metabolic disorders. Long-term side effects of the diet in children include,. In short, it's not something you should be subjecting a child to without a strong medical reason to do so, under the supervision of a doctor.
This question already has a longer answer on our sister site, Biology Stackexchange. In summary, this is normal. I will quote from the answer of. The complete answer is a bit longer. Original question:
They appear to. In, researchers looked at anorexia patients 2 to 6 weeks after what is called "refeeding", and patients 6 months after. So they were maintaining weight at the same amount of calories that people without a history of anorexia were also maintaining their weight at. The same was found in this study: RMR = Resting Metabolic Rate; TEE = Total Energy Expenditure Both studies had small sample sizes though. During recovery, patients recovering from anorexia need more calories than expected for weight gain, which is called hypermetabolic, but that period ends at around 4 to 6 months. (figure 2)
You are asking about the protocol for allowing euthanasia. Usually, you can just look this up in the text of the law., for example. The treating doctor must: And so on, those laws are way too long to summarize here. This will vary with country. Unless a doctor wants to be charged with some form of homicide, they need to comply with these laws.
Positively, no. HIV is not by mosquitoes. You cannot contract any disease from swallowing a mosquito., is a very large list of all the things that you could have caught:) If you were bitten.
Early symptoms around 6 to 12 hours, more severe symptoms at around one to three days. All depending on how much the individual was using previously and what you interpret as "serious". According to the: The Australian state basically the same:
There is at least one study on this, published in The Lancet: This was a trial on only 20 patients with CSF and 20 control patients. That size of course isn't large enough to draw any reliable conclusions. I also found a study comparing magnesium levels in patients with CSF with healthy controls that found. The:
Tuberculosis and scarring That scar on the X-rays is likely. A lymphadenopathy is a swelling of the lymph nodes and appears in almost all patients, a lung cavity occurs in about half the patients. Most people, but. The scarring you are asking about is likely caused by the lymph nodes: A parenchymal scar is a scar in the lungs. No surgery is done to remove it. Tuberculosis and weight Tuberculosis leads to weight loss and malnutrition. Weight gain is a positive sign. Weight loss indicates that something is wrong,.
The Numerical Rating Scale may be the easiest one to relate to. Between ranges can be looked at pretty objectively, but within ranges is more subjective. Rating: Pain Level ADLs are activities of daily living.
I'd recommend you to use Figure 1. There's one caveat: cases are not grouped according to speciality; they're all on one page. However, the community is pretty decent and I'm pretty sure there are sufficient professionals that are able to address your concerns. Description: " Compelling medical cases for healthcare professionals. Used by healthcare professionals and students for education and collaboration. "
The exact is unknown, although they are thought to be the result of temporary changes, or abnormal brain activity which can affect nerve signals, chemicals and blood vessels in the brain. It could also relate to your health conditions (e.g.), vital energy or specific hormone balance at the given time. Such as levels of sodium or. Therefore it's not possible to indicate whether concentrating hard on a task can cause migraines or headaches, unless it's caused by emotional (anxiety, tension, stress, etc.) or physical trigger (tiredness, low blood sugar, etc.).
The term "earwig". It doesn't. So this has nothing to do with using it as medication against ear infections etc. (In German, by the way, it's called Ohrenkneifer (ear pincher))
Some of the oils in coffee (terpenes, in particular kahweol and cafestol) are believed to be the source of its effect on cholesterol. There are two ways to cut down on intake of cholesterol-influencing terpenes: For further reading, some sources are below. The fourth (Strandhagen and Thelle 2003) has a number of additional studies in its introduction.
I think you are misunderstanding what that sentence says - as I interpret it it means that the posterior discs from C3 to C7 are bulging. So all five of them, C3/4/5/6/7 (or rather, the four discs between them) are affected.
The exact value depends on a lot of things - skin tone, the time of day, latitude, how deep the shade is,. The study found that the UVB radiation at 280–320 nanometers that is needed for vitamin D production dropped to levels at around 50% in a tree shade and under an umbrella. It was much less on a covered veranda - around 11% - and completely absent in a car with closed windows. came to similar conclusions (emphasis mine): Since exposure to these wavelengths is what drives vitamin D production, an approximate answer to your question is probably "around 35 to 55%".
There's a demanding abstinence from alcohol for liver transplants. I can't immediately find evidence of similar rules for other organs, but they might exist. There can also be a for plastic surgery, but that's not really a lifestyle test. It's kind of the opposite.
Why stick to only one type of fruit? One day you have an apple and a guava the next. After all, each fruit has it's own set of benefits and they are all good for your health. No fruit is considered bad to consume right? And if you are only looking to fill up your energy meter and to satiate your mid-afternoon cravings, bananas are an excellent choice as they are high in calories and are very effective in eliminating hunger.
The active ingredient in Ponstan is. It is categorized as a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). It works Basically, like a lot of painkillers, it inhibits the transmission of pain signaling. As for speed, how fast NSAIDs lead to less pain depends on a lot of things, including the severity of the pain or when the patient last ate, it can't really be generalized. A very fast relief might also be caused by
The "Townsend deprivation score" measures socio-economic status, and has five categories, hence you are being asked for your quintile. The scale is 1-5, and it Since it needs to be standardized you can't just calculate it for yourself. 2001 Townsend scores for the UK can be found at the. It seems to be occasionally used for risk assessments like in your link.
Good question. The answer is no, not in this case. In order to understand why, it will help to talk about the different ways pathogens enter the body: Picking up the fecal matter and smelling it raises concerns about direct contact, vector transmission and airborne transmission. As Atl LED mentions, the pathogens in feces are normally transmitted through the. The fecal-oral route requires that the pathogen enters the digestive tract, which won't happen by smelling. Nevertheless, it can be classified as risky behavior, and is not recommended.
Calcium-rich food interferes with absorption of tetracycline considerably: However, you can't calculate with that, by for example just taking twice the dosage. The safe method is to not ingest milk or any other calcium-rich food together with the tetracycline. The recommendation appears to be to (taking the antibiotics first): The study referenced above recommends an even more cautious three hours.
According to the, it is safe to fly with a perforated eardrum. They say that it may even cause less discomfort because air can pass more easily through the hole that has formed in your eardrum. You did mention that the hole has appeared to have scabbed over, but that still shouldn't put you at a risk of furthering the damage to your ear. It might cause a bit more discomfort, but more damage won't occur and the healing process won't slow down.
Levels generally increase until the ages of 50-60, then fall. In children, levels of LDL and HDL generally either rise or fall monotonically (i.e. continuously) over childhood; see. LDL-C was found to decrease in both genders, while HDL-C was found to increase in girls and fluctuate in boys. After about the age of 50, both men and women generally experience a fall in blood cholesterol levels (see). Additionally, levels in all age groups may fluctuate according to the seasons (see and cited studies therein). However, the reason for this is unknown.
The site you found that on is the. It's generally considered an authoritative source. The site states the following: In support of that statement, they include a link to. Note that in this document they mention possible reasons for the Baby Boomers to have such a high prevalence:
A quick, non-comprehensive google search turned up a couple of publications targeted at doctors indicating that maintenance doses of allergens are in the range of 5-20 micrograms: This obviously varies a great deal depending on the allergen, the patient, and the progress of therapy, but it sounds like you could use it as an order-of-magnitude estimate. Some issues to note:
This also depends on the question if hypothyroidism is subclinical or overt. Recently, the European Thyroid Association has published a. In asymptomatic patients thyroid function tests (TFTs) should be repeated in 6 months intervals. Decisions shouldn't be based on TSH levels alone, but also on concentrations of free T4 and free T3. In difficult cases calculated parameters including SPINA-GT, SPINA-GD and Jostel's TSH index might be helpful as well. A demonstrated age, sex, SPINA-GD and aetiology of hypothyroidism to be independent predictors of substitution dose with L-T4.
One word: dehydration. You spent a day out in the sun, exerting yourself, and probably didn't maintain your normal level of hydration. Consequently, you're mildly dehydrated (or, more properly, hypohydrated). Dehydration means a lower blood volume, which in turn means your heart has to beat faster to move the same volume of blood. Consequently, your heart rate is mildly elevated until you restore your normal hydration levels. Summary of Findings
For every individual situation, one must weigh the risks vs. the benefits. If the potential or actual benefits outweigh the potential or actual risks, and the situation calls for ibuprophen, you take the medication. If the potential benefits don't outweigh the potential risks, you don't take the medication. The risks vary from individual to individual and from situation to situation. There is no blanket answer to your question. A Review of Quantitative Risk–Benefit Methodologies for Assessing Drug Safety and Efficacy—Report of the ISPOR Risk–Benefit Management Working Group, J. Guo et al, Value in Health, Volume 13, Issue 5, APR 2010
Contact your physician and find out for sure from them. The ranges vary and are different for every women. Below is some answers, but you can't take important medical advice from the internet. Please contact your physician.
In my experience most anesthesiologists use 5 hours as the minimum time necessary for the stomach to be sufficiently empty to make it safe to administer anesthesia. However, their criteria is quite stringent because the consequences of the stomach not actually being empty can be severe (aspiration of vomit). The National Health Service (UK) offers: I've seen that guideline used in medication instructions so I believe it is widely accepted.
Inesophet actually had a good answer there, and I'll expand on that. Pheomelanins impart a pink to red hue, depending upon the concentration. They are particularly concentrated in the lips, nipples, glans of the penis, and vagina. Meanwhile, there are two types of eumelanin: brown eumelanin and black eumelanin—which chemically differ from each other in their pattern of polymeric bonds. A small amount of black eumelanin in the absence of other pigments causes grey hair. A small amount of brown eumelanin in the absence of other pigments causes yellow (blond) color hair. Optional Reading: Sources:
Kind of... 9 x 454 = 4,086 calories. So eating 1 pound of oil will give you 4000 calories. oil! Eating will also make you 'gain' more than they weight, because they will attract water. Eating or lots of and 'appear' to gain weight while it's in your intestines, but you'd also have to drink liquids.
Unless there have been animals around it recently, it's unlikely there are any viruses on it. As for bacteria, or more specifically, wet heat is a far better sanitizer than alcohol. A half hour at a full boil should kill anything particularly nasty, like clostridium tetani. If you want absolute peace of mind this should do the trick, although I'm not sure if that handle will make it through this process:
Not sure if I answered this right: The reason for it: Basically these values stay consistent with some minor changes, unless a person is experiencing a acid-base imbalance. These are life threatening and can be extremes in acid or alkaline. The pH as you can see stays within the range it needs to be, in order to process food.
It's actually the other way around. Oil coming from your pores causes dead skin cells to clump together, blocking the pore. Acne is a blocked or infected pore. When your skin is oily, the oil actually comes from pores that are not clogged. So the oil you feel when you touch your pimple (which BTW is a bad idea) is probably coming from surrounding pores. Reference: As for treatment, you can try over the counter acne products. If those don't work or your acne is severe, see a dermatologist.
It certainly is not true. There are a few reasons which might help you understand why this "humans only use 10% of their brain" is a myth: There are several other explanations that try to deny the 10% myth. You may read about this at:
The overdose range of sertraline varies between individual to individual. For instance, in Reference 1, it is reported that an ingestion 13,500 mg did not result in a fatality. Another individual was not so fortunate. He died after taking 2,500 mg. Long term effects do not appear to be common with SSRI overdosage (let alone sertraline). It would stand to reason that papers concerning sertraline overdosage would note any untoward long-term effects due to overdosage (References 2 and 3). However, Reference 4 does mention that "The incidence of seizures was 1.9% and coma was 2.4%" with SSRI medication. References
Based on the actually meaning inflammation of a tendon, what's typically associated with this condition, and the body's immune system response with it stimulating nerve cells and triggering pain, inflammation can and does cause pain. When swelling occurs and the immune system responds accordingly, this process can also stimulate nerves and trigger the pain effect so based on this, that is WHY inflammation causes pain with tendinitis or any other condition for this matter with the human body.
DaveL already covered the Zika aspects, so I'll just add this. Microcephaly is a birth defect that happens to developing fetuses, not children. Your children were safe from microcephaly the day they were born without it.
Pathologies due to mineral inhalation are a broad spectrum of diseases called pneumoconiosis. You can read about it here in. The type of disease is different regarding different minerals, and this reflects to the treatment approach.
If observing surgery might cause you to faint then there are two things you can do: Number two is quite easy to accomplish in this era of the internet*. There are thousands of videos and photos online to choose from, and as anyone with experience in medicine, emergency services, or combat will tell you, you will get used to seeing it and the autonomic response that causes you to faint will dissipate over time. However, if your reaction is so strong that fainting is a real possibility, you might want to consider visiting a psychologist for.
"How to know if (or when) I fall asleep, and not merely just lying there doing nothing?": You not remembering has to do with your short term memory not working during sleep. If you think you have a sleeping disorder then you should consult your doctor, she/he may order a Sleep study.
It means that the receptors are blocked forever. A cell is a living thing, continuously producing new proteins (including receptors) and recycling old ones. So the cell is not defective forever, it will slowly phase out its blocked receptors and replace them with new ones. You can read the basics of the way receptors work in textbooks on cell signalling, such as. A topic of special interest would be ubiquitination,.
It's possible the speakers you're using to test are not able to output frequencies that high, even if they claim they should be able to. Aside from that, I'm pretty sure by age 30 your hearing ability for higher frequencies has declined some - check out this chart. If you want to research it more, search for ISO 7029.
I’ve found a quotation that sheds some light on the topic: (Peter D. Bryson: Comprehensive Reviews in Toxicology: For Emergency Clinicians)
Yes, it is possible. In a bone marrow transplant, all of the patient's bone marrow is destroyed and replaced with donor marrow. Since red blood cells are created by bone marrow, the donor's blood type will determine which type of red cells are produced, as explained: There is also of an Australian girl whose blood type changed following a liver transplant. That appears to have been a unique event, but it does indicate that it is possible by means other than marrow transplant.
You can find directions for many places online, and that should render it safe from pathogens. However, it will do nothing to protect you from heavy metals, pesticides, and other toxins that goat might be ingesting. Considering that it's eating from garbage piles, I would consider it very likely the milk contains at least some toxins. I would not drink it. If you do drink it, I would suggest not giving it to children and pregnant women.
Water is typically pH neutral at around pH7. Sometimes you can also buy bottled varieties with a more alkaline character so something closer to pH8. Now there's a basic chemical reaction called. In essence, all you have to do is rinse your mouth with water several times to neutralize the acid.
Yes avoid getting too much water inside your ears I would recommend against using ear buds they do more harm than any good. Stop poking inside your ear Regarding your existing condition please go see an ENT specialist
There's nothing else to be released, because when microwave production is stopped the waves cease to exist. From the: Provided that your microwave meets regulations regarding the double locking mechanism, more radiation is leaked when the door is closed and the microwave is on than when the door is opened and the microwave is off.
The book " " says "A light carbohydrate snack before bed may promote sleep, but avoid eating large fatty meals before bedtime". EDIT: If getting to sleep is not an issue, then perhaps what you want is food that will keep you satiated for longest. I think it is well established that, of all the food groups, it is protein that is best, but I'm afraid I don't have a reference for that.
The potential toxicity of vitamins varies enormously, but as a rough guide, fat soluble ones have a much higher potential to be stored in your body and build up to toxic levels whereas water soluble ones are likely to simply be flushed out in your urine. I would be wary of taking high doses of fat soluble vitamins over an extended period. See.
I'll assume you're only asking about mechanoreceptors, else it gets too murky. Humans have four types of mechanoreceptors. Given this information, 2500 is certainly in the right ballpark. I would trust that number. Note that this doesn't mean that you can sense 2500 separate locations of pressure in a square centimeter of fingertip. The different mechanoreceptors sense different types and frequency of pressure, and the sensory fields overlap even within a single type of receptor. Kandel, Eric R., James H. Schwartz, and Thomas M. Jessell, eds. Principles of neural science. Vol. 4. New York: McGraw-hill, 2000.
The count of melanocytes per square mm depends on the body region and 1500 seems to be the upper limit. Interestingly
: "Despite a potential bit of miscommunication about the technique's effect on insomnia, there’s one thing I can be certain about – there doesn’t appear to be any reliable evidence that the 4-7-8 breathing method works."
No. The infrared light is not intense enough. If it was, the controller would be labeled with a warning sticker. I've been criticized for giving a short argument. But it was a choice between recommending a method to measure the IR intensity or giving a credible argument from a design perspective. There are just logical barriers that make a dangerous intensity highly improbable; legislation and power efficiency are in 99.99% the prime reasons why it should be safe.
The T-spot blood test for tuberculosis is an interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA or IFN-γ assay). There are two of these tests (Quantiferon and T-spot) with small differences, but is the same and they are treated the same for the CDC,: BCG is the. While I couldn't find references to primary literature on that CDC site, what I found myself supports this The paper concludes reaches the same conclusion and recommends the test for vaccinated people. That study used the Quantiferon test, but the two tests.
There have MANY trials comparing PCI (intervention during the "cardiac cath" procedure) which are well referenced in this update. (Note, the "Heart Team" approach mentioned below relies on the combination of the expert opinion of the interventional cardiologist was well as the cardiac surgeon.)
From your link: Again, according to the linear no-threshold model, which is used for US and much international legislation. It is not possible to accurately know effective doses from only the ARS symptoms. The rough values are also mentioned in your link.
The simplest answer is that both types of systems are more or less equal. Long answer: It's actually the dentist that needs to be aware of a few concepts: My source, excluding professional formation:
I finally found the symbol on page 5 of the quick reference guide for the ventilator. It is just an indicator that the disconnect alarm has been set to low sensitivity.
Taken from: Summary: There is not yet enough evidence to form an opinion. The 2014 Cochrane review,, examined the study, and concluded it wasn't too bad: but still not perfect: Cochrane reviews normally systematic examine many different papers. However, this review was unable to find any other high quality papers on the subject, and concluded: We need more evidence though to seriously recommend such supplements. I hope there will be more studies in the future.
By relieving symptoms you can make a person feel as if they are well or getting better. So yes I would say it helps. So just the hotness of the fluid can be a benefit. So when assessing the opportunities of tea over water, the answer could be antioxidants. that are found in fruits and vegetables. Which if you accept that antioxidants help in sickness this could be your answer, just as extra.
These chemicals are found to be mutagenic and may increase the risk of cancer. From the same article, things that influence how much HCA's and PAH's are: For the HCA'S and PAH's need to be metabolized by specific enzymes in the body. While: Additional highlights:
Some of these are interventions that your health care provider would utilize. So make sure you follow up with your healthcare provider. Polyuria - Thiazide Diuretics & NSAIDs Hypovolemia - Parenteral Fluids Dialysis may be indicated The ICU may be indicated
I would go with the expiration on the package. If the package says that it can only last till June 2015 or other date, I wouldn't try go very far past that. Also, make sure the package is intact and make sure it looks and smells edible., this may or may not be helpful.
As said Cialis's effects are not permanent and all information on the drug can be found on the official drugs site, cialis.com
I would say consult a doctor to confirm the problem. Removal of the but I am sure there are a very few instances when it does. A would be a time when organ removal defintely would affect you a lot more. Helpful: Basically, the Uterus is not that big so the bladder and other structures fill the void. Above link shows pics.
Being optimistic is not the only factor but people who were prepared for physical losses, and who were nevertheless optimistic, were better able to maintain better physical functioning, and lower depressive symptoms. in the study below it was concluded that ageing well may depend both on public policy and societal efforts that work against stereotypical views of ageing, recognizing instead the diversity of the ageing population, and on encouraging individual optimistic views and active behaviors to promote healthy ageing.
For calcium it depends on age and gender, as shown in: So for a male aged 19-50, 1 liter of Fiji water would be: And 1 liter of Evian would be: In other words, if you're looking for calcium in bottled water, you're looking in the wrong place. It's the most expensive possible source of calcium you could choose and not a very good one. As Mayo notes: Notice that they don't mention water.
It seems to be unclear and likely some kind of combination of several factors. The paper mentions two theories as to why it works (and works very well): The first mechanism is what I found mentioned in a few other sources as well, for example on: Another hypothesis is that the acid composition in the feces is significantly altered and inhibits growth of CD, see.
The first trimester is. So some statements that can be made are: - Any amount can harm a fetus, but more severe damage is related to heavy drinking. Heavy amounts depend on size of person and drink. What can be done for drinking while pregnant:
It means secondary to. From your: If you are looking for a more credible source, mentions that it means "secondary to." also mentions its meaning.
While that claim might sound reasonable at first, I doubt this has any effect you need to consider for your health. There's several reasons for this: As a doctor writes (yes, I know that link is in your question): Drink water when you want to drink water. Also, don't trust sites that tell you to drink water to "activate your internal organs" in the morning;-)
What should I take care of while sleeping with another woman to protect her against AIDS? I am afraid if I have sex with my wife it will cause her to have AIDS?
Drug research and epidemiology are two areas that lend themselves to distributed computing, and there are several existing projects that you can look at. There are several for medical projects, for example: The also has some medical projects for distributed computing, among them: All those pages should have information on the projects and contact information. Then there's, which should all have information available on what was done, and what came out of it if the results were already analyzed.
It is more likely to be related to your blood pressure, which is one of the reasons of Pulsatile Tinnitus (heart beat sound in the ear), during exercise. Weightlifting may cause a temporary increase in blood pressure. This increase can be dramatic, depending on how much weight you lift. It is not dangerous if your pre-exercise (or resting) blood pressure is not 180/110mmHg. Also, there is an old but about it.
1 Kilocalorie equals 1 Calorie. Note the capital "C". 1 kilocalorie equals 1000 calories. Note the lowercase "c". So Calories and kilocalories are pretty much the same thing. 1000 calories= 1 Kcal
Generally speaking, 1 kilocalorie = 1000 calories . But the confusing part is explained here: So, the answer is, in your case, "calorie" means the same as "Kcal" or "Kilocalorie".
You can only get HIV from someone or something already infected. This includes humans, needles, breast milk, etc. HIV virus must come in contact with a damaged or open tissue. You must have the infection to transmit it. Multiple partners increase risk, but only transmit if one partner already has infection. How does a person get HIV? From someone or something already infected. If we go back to the first person infected then:
High quality custom ear plugs (e.g., although all custom plug are essentially the same materials) are essentially identical to the molds used in some hearing aids. Hearing aid users are encouraged to use their aids all day every day. Increased build up of ear wax can be a problem, but can easily be treated at home. Cheaper foam ear plugs can deteriorate in the canal and add debris.
Be sure to supplement enough iron (about 18 mg per day)! Take your iron with vitamin C and avoid tea and coffee. American Red Cross: About 200 mg of iron will be lost during your donation:
Since infection can lead to prolonged healing, you could see it working that way. are known to negatively affect bone growth, this is mostly seen in infants though.: Results of study: All in all Vitamin D, Calcium, and antibiotics all do in a way help bone fracture healing.
Green tea has thermogenic properties and promotes fat oxidation beyond that explained by its caffeine content per se. If green tea extract are drunk during the meal there is a proved effect of it on fat oxidation.
Maybe. Depends on the 95-year old. and the 25-year old. A heart failure diagnosis isn't just the process of getting older; it has objective criteria. I expect most 95-year olds would score above zero on this scale, many quite highly, but not all of them would. And, of course, we know there are 25-year olds who would score highly too, so I'd say it's a race. Not a very fair one, but a race nonetheless.
Not too many studies showed any correlation between smoking and risk of epicondylitis but only one study mentioned it. They say:
Nothing out of the ordinary, unless it is subjected to testing. Anything proposed outside of what is known about oral health and saliva is simply hypothesis. Oral health could be influenced by diet (eating certain foods are less likely to feed oral bacteria), fluid consumption, salivary flow, or any number of things.
Scientists have found some perfumed products in the home can create unhealthy levels of formaldehyde, for example scented candles. In view of its widespread use, toxicity, and volatility, formaldehyde is a significant consideration for human health. In 2011, the US National Toxicology Program described formaldehyde as "known to be a human carcinogen". An interesting article that talks a bit of it:
I am not sure if I am answering your question correctly but I wanted to point you towards the following tools that I have found very useful when conducting critical appraisal of literature: From the above site: This set of eight critical appraisal tools are designed to be used when reading research, these include tools for Systematic Reviews, Randomised Controlled Trials, Cohort Studies, Case Control Studies, Economic Evaluations, Diagnostic Studies, Qualitative studies and Clinical Prediction Rule. Even if it doesn't help you at all, perhaps others may find it of use when browsing this question:)
